- I'm so excited at what Samsung did this year. After they didn't release an FE version of the Tab S8, they released not one but two FE versions of the newer Tab S9 lineup. So let's talk about how they compare, the interesting differences in battery life, whether either one of these is actually worth getting. And thank you to Best Buy for sponsoring a portion of this video. So overall, these are two very similar tablets, and one of the most important differences is size. The Tab S9 FE is smaller with a 10.9 inch display, the FE+ comes with a larger 12.4 inch display, so naturally, it's larger and heavier, but it's not any thicker. The two tablets have a similar design with a full aluminum frame and back, and I love that Samsung was able to bring IP68 rating down to the FE version, giving both tablets protection from water and dust. Now this is great if you take your tablet with you to work or when you travel, but it's also a super nice feature if you're using it around the house and you have a dog that likes to throw toys up in the air and also has a super aggressive tail. Now both tablets offer face recognition for biometric authentication, and a more secure fingerprint sensor, which is integrated into the power button. Now the fingerprint sensor on the FE models has worked great for me, but it's just a little less convenient than the under-display sensor on the flagship models. Both tablets also have a microSD card slot, so we can upgrade the internal storage by up to one terabyte, and we can use that storage for photos, for videos, for files, and for most apps. Now continuing to look around the edges, we're getting two AKG-tuned speakers on both tablets. And while the flagship models come with four speakers and sound fuller, the FE models are not too shabby if you're someone who actually uses the speakers on their tablet. Now going back to the display, both tablets have an IPS LCD display, which offers a 90 hertz adaptive refresh rate. The FE model has a low resolution but a slightly higher pixel density. And realistically, you aren't really going to notice that difference in terms of sharpness. Now I like the higher resolution and the larger display on the FE+ because I'm able to see more without having to scroll and it's better for multitasking. But of course, you're giving up on portability and there are also some implications in terms of gaming, which we'll talk about later on. Now both tablets have an aspect ratio of 16:10, so they're excellent for watching content. And in terms of image quality, both are very good for LCD displays. And if you're looking for an even better display, you can check out the Tab S8+ or the Tab S8 Ultra with their dynamic AMOLED display, or jump to the current flagship Tab S9 models with their dynamic AMOLED 2X displays. Now when it comes to gaming, it's important to consider the fact that these are not flagship models. So part of what you're giving up is performance. I was able to play my usual games like "Genshin," "Asphalt," "PUBG," and then, of course, some less demanding games, but there's an obvious difference in both processing power and GPU performance when compared with the flagship models, and it did have an impact on more resource-intensive games. The two FE models performed about the same, and we'll quickly go over benchmarks in the Performance section, but there's no question that Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip in the flagship models is more capable than the Exynos 1380 in the FE versions. Using "PUBG" as an example, with the FE model, I was limited to high frame rate whether Graphics were set to Smooth, Balanced, or HD, and that was as good as it got. So I definitely couldn't get to 90 FPS. With the flagship models, gameplay was smoother and more responsive, and I could play with Graphics set to Smooth and Frame Rate set to 90 FPS. I could also set Graphics anywhere from Balanced to HDR and Frame Rate to Extreme, or ultra HD for Graphics and Ultra for Frame Rate. While playing "Genshin Impact," I had a very similar experience where it was playable on the FE models, but it was much more fluid and less laggy on the flagship models. Again, because of the more capable processor and the additional RAM. Now the FE+ model does come with either two or four more gigs of RAM than the FE model. Depending on which storage option we're comparing in, we'll cover that in the Configuration section. Either way, if more demanding games are a priority for you, then keep in mind that we know game developers are always going to push to CPU and GPU, and games are going to evolve and start to demand more and more resources. When I look to keep a device for at least four to five years, I'm always going to opt for the tablet that has better CPU and GPU performance than I need right now. And that way, I know that it'll continue to perform better in the future. Something else to consider is the size of the display. The FE+ is bigger, so it's easier to see someone sniping at you from a distance, but the FE model is smaller and lighter so it's more comfortable to hold and play for longer periods of time. If you wanna stream and play Xbox games with the Xbox Game Pass app, you can pair an Xbox controller with both tablets and have extremely smooth gameplay as long as you have a reliable internet connection. I would give the edge to the FE+ model because of the larger display. And both tablets started with 120 gigabytes of storage and have a 256 gigabyte model. So there's no advantage in terms of space for games. And remember that you can use the microSD for additional inexpensive storage, which is a great deal. And speaking of that, if you're looking for great deals on new tech, check out today's sponsor, Best Buy, where you can get a 512 gigabyte Samsung Pro Plus microSD card for 40 bucks. And when you use the app, you get a first look at Best Buy Drops, which means you're getting better savings on hot or limited inventory products. Best Buy has great prices and a Price Match Guarantee. And my Best Buy members get exclusive offers on thousands of products. Like check out this 65 inch 4K TV, it's originally 1,299, but my Best Buy members get $200 off. Or you can take $70 off the Book Cover Keyboard Slim for the Tab S9 FE+. On top of that, if you shop in store, you can just have a blue shirt scan your digital member ID from the app, and all your in-store purchases are attached to your My Best Buy account. So if you wanna save some money on a gift or something for yourself, make sure to download the Best Buy app now for great deals, and think you to Best Buy for sponsoring this portion of the video. Now back to the tablets, another factor to consider is the ability to expand the functionality of each tablet by adding a keyboard case and a stylus. Now both tablets are compatible with two versions of the Book Cover Keyboard from Samsung. In that context, I prefer the FE+ because it's larger and more comfortable to type on. And of course, you can always use an external Bluetooth keyboard instead. Now both tablets also come with a free S Pen, which can be stored on the side or on the back of the tablet, but these are not Bluetooth-enabled S Pens like the ones that come with the flagship models. In terms of the actual writing experience, it's going to be the same with both tablets. And the only practical difference here is the larger canvas on the FE+ model. Looking at the camera systems, both have an eight megapixel rear-facing camera and a 12 megapixel selfie camera. So here's a quick sample. Here's a camera and microphone test of the Tab S9 FE and the Tab S9 FE+. This should give you a pretty good idea of the type of image quality that you're going to get and the type of audio quality that you should expect from both tablets. We talked about performance in the Gaming section, so let's quickly look at the single and multi-core performance of the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 and the Exynos 138 so you can see the differences between the FE and the flagship models. We also see a significant difference in GPU performance, which helps explain some of the differences we saw when gaming. This is not to say that the FE models are not a good value. If you're surfing the web, watching video, or going on social media, you'll definitely be able to use these tablets. And even for like gaming or for and other typical tasks, these will work great. Of course, for more demanding things like photo and video editing or for more demanding games, the flagship models are more capable, but I always encourage you to keep in mind what you plan on doing and not buy products based on somebody else's needs. Both tablets run the latest Android and One UI, so you're getting all the latest features like three tiled apps, pop-up windows, and then of course DeX, which is awesome. So essentially, it reboots the tablet and gives you an operating system that is very similar to a desktop OS. You're getting a task bar, a desktop with icons, multiple windows, you can snap windows, and you can use a keyboard case to transform your tablet to more of a laptop replacement. You can also connect an external keyboard and mouse for a better user experience, but you can't connect an external display and run a dual display setup with either the FE or the FE+. That's only available on the flagship models. You can, however, use both of these tablets as an additional display for your laptop or desktop with Samsung's Second Screen. This is a super handy feature when you travel. As far as OS and security updates, Samsung promises four years of OS updates and five years of security updates, which I think is great. In terms of battery life, the FE model has a smaller 8,000 milliamp per hour battery versus 10,090 on the FE+, and I was super curious to know how that would play out considering the differences in the display sizes. In my test, I found that the larger battery on the FE+ lasts longer even though it has to power the bigger display. And if you want more information, check out this detailed battery drain test of the entire Tab S9 lineup. Now both tablets offer 45 watt fast charging, but neither ships with an adapter, so that's something that you're gonna need to purchase separately. Now when we look at configuration options, both start out with 120 gigabytes of internal storage. The Tab S9 FE comes with six gigs of RAM, and the FE+ comes with eight gigs of RAM. If we upgrade to 256 gigabytes on both models, then we're getting eight gigs of RAM on the Tab S9 FE, and then 12 on the FE+. Now, I didn't notice a major difference in performance between the two of them, but of course, all other things being equal, having more RAM is better, especially if you're multitasking. So ultimately, the choice comes down to the smaller, less expensive, and more portable Tab S9 FE versus the FE+, which has a larger display, is better for multitasking, has more RAM, and better battery life. Now you should check out the battery drain test. Hopefully, this comparison was helpful. Click on my face to subscribe. You know what I always say, "Buy it nice or buy it twice." Good luck and see you soon.- When Samsung released the FE version of the Tab S9, I was so excited and I couldn't wait to do this comparison with the iPad 10. Both tablets are about the same size and the same price, but the choice wasn't as easy as I initially thought it would be. And by the way, I know prices around the world are very different, so if you're watching this from outside of the US, please let me know in the comment section where you're from and how much each of these tablets cost because obviously this is a really important factor and thank you to Best Buy for sponsoring a portion of this video. So the first thing most people consider is the display. And in this case, the iPad 10 has a 10.9 inch liquid retina 60 Hertz display with the resolution of 1640 by 2360, a four by three aspect ratio and 264 pixels per inch. The Tab S9 FE also has a 10.9 inch IPS LCD display, but it's a 90 Hertz display, has a resolution of 1440 by 2304, an aspect ratio of 16 by 10 and then a lower pixel density of 249. Now in terms of image quality, both displays are sharp and crisp, and if I'm being critical, the iPad has better color accuracy and the Tab S9 FE is a bit warmer and has a slight greenish shift. I do like that it's a 90 Hertz display on the Tab S9 FE because things like animations and scrolling look smoother. Now, 60 Hertz has never really been a deal breaker for me. Right now I'm using three different phones, the iPhone 15 Pro Max, the Samsung S23 Ultra and the Pixel 8 Pro. So I'm used to 120 Hertz, but I think a higher refresh rate is a nice to have, but not critical for most tasks on mobile devices. There are exceptions, of course, like some games, but things got a little strange there. So I'll come back to that in the dedicated gaming section of this video. Now, in terms of aspect ratio, the Tab S9 FE is better suited for watching video because the 16 by 10 aspect ratio is closer to most content and the image is larger and has smaller black bars. Now with the iPad 10, we're getting a four by three aspect ratio, which is wider in portrait mode, and it's really nice when taking handwritten notes using the Apple Pencil. Now another important difference is that the Tab S9 FE has a fully laminated display. So the display, the touch layer and the cover glass are fused together into a single display assembly and the image looks like it's printed right on top of the glass. On the iPad 10, there is an air gap between the display and the combination of cover glass and touch layer. For a lot of things like watching movies, surfing the web or playing games, it's not really something that you're going to notice unless you really look for it, but when you're using the stylus, it does make a difference. So with the iPad 10, you'll be able to see separation between the tip of the Apple Pencil and the content that's being created, especially if you're looking at an angle. With the Tab S9 FE because the image looks like it's on top of the glass, it's going to look like the tip of the S Pen is touching the line or the content that you're creating, which of course is better. The one advantage of a non laminated display is that if the display gets damaged, most of the time it's just a cover glass so replacement is relatively inexpensive. With a fully laminated display, the entire display assembly has to be replaced even if you just scratch the cover glass. I'll also get to a few other important stylus differences in just a moment, but first I want to talk about gaming. So I play a lot of games on my tablets and I was really curious to see how these two would match up. So I was able to play my usual games like Genshin, Asphalt and PUBG and then of course less demanding games. But there was an obvious difference in both processing power and GPU performance, which did have an impact on more resource intensive games. I'll quickly show you benchmarks in the performance section, but this was one of those areas where I could clearly see the advantage of the iPad's A14 chip over the Exynos 1380. Now using PUBG as an example, gameplay was smoother and more responsive on the iPad, and I could play with balanced graphics and extreme frame rate versus balanced graphics and high frame rate on the Tab S9. And then of course, I could definitely not get to the 90 FPS that would take advantage of the faster refresh rate on the Samsung display. I had a similar experience with Genshin, which again performed better on the iPad 10, even though it has less RAM than a Tab S9 FE. Now looking ahead, we know that game developers are always looking to push the CPU and GPU and games are going to evolve and start to demand more and more resources. If I'm looking for a device to keep for the next four or five years or even more, I'm always going to opt for the tablet that has better CPU and GPU performance than what I need right now so it continues to perform well into the future. Now, if you wanna stream and play Xbox Games with the Xbox Game Pass app, you can pair an Xbox controller with both tablets and have extremely smooth gameplay as long as you have a reliable internet connection. But there's one area where the Tab S9 FE comes out ahead and that's storage. The iPad 10 starts out with 64 gigabytes of internal storage versus 128 gigs on the Tab S9 FE. To give you a sense of what that means, iPad OS currently takes up a little over 10 gigabytes of storage, system data takes up another 11 gigs, and PUBG uses a little over 20 gigs. So that's 41 out of 64 available gigabytes already used up with no other apps, files or photos. Now both tablets are also available in 256 gigabyte options. With the iPad, that's an additional 150 bucks, and with the Tab S9 FE, it's an extra 70 bucks. Now the Tab S9 FE also has a micro SD card slot, which you can use to expand the internal storage by up to one terabyte. And you can use this storage for files, photos, videos, and for most apps. We'll talk more about the configuration options later on but for right now, I just wanna make sure that you have enough storage for all the apps and the games that you want to install. And that brings me to today's sponsor Best Buy and the Western Digital Storage Solutions for gamers. If you have a PlayStation 5, the Western Digital Black SN850 P NVME SSD is officially licensed. It's extremely easy to install. It's unbelievably fast, and this one terabyte version means that I'm not wasting any time deleting and downloading games when I run out of space. If you prefer Xbox, then check out the WD Black C50. It's designed in partnership with Xbox. It has a built-in heat sink to avoid lag, and it's designed to specifically meet the speed and lifespan requirements of your Xbox. And finally, if you prefer a gaming pc, check out the WD Black D10 desktop hard drive. It's designed to offer additional storage for demanding PC gaming rigs. It's plug and play, and it gives your gaming PC the reliable performance boost and capacity it needs. Not all SSDs and hard drives are created equal. So do it right and visit bestbuy.com to get a super fast Western Digital drive that was specifically designed for your gaming needs. And thank you to Best Buy for sponsoring this portion of the video. When we look at the overall design of these tablets, they're quite similar since Apple upgraded from the older iPad 9 design. Both tablets are machined aluminum, both have rounded corners and squared off edges, but the Tab S9 FE has slightly smaller bezels. We're getting a fingerprint sensor incorporated into the power button in both devices, on the iPad 10 it's on the short side, on the Tab S9 FE it's on the longer side, and both have been very accurate and responsive for me, but the iPad 10 has four speaker grills versus two on the Tab S9 FE, but both tablets only have two speakers, one on each side. In terms of audio quality, both are good but not as good as the higher end models. And the Tab S9 FE speakers are a tad louder and sound a bit brighter. One thing that I found when I'm gaming and holding the tablet in my hand is that on the iPad Air 4, I'm actually covering the speakers with my hand. So there are two other grills, so the sound can't come from there. But on the Tab S9 FE, the speakers are on the top if I'm holding in a landscape mode, so I'm not blocking them. Now personally, I'm okay either way because whenever I'm gaming, I'm wearing a headset, but I just wanted to mention it in case you don't. The Tab S9 FE also has an IP 68 rating, so we're getting protection from water and dust. Now, obviously this is important if you take your tablet with you and you travel or when you go outside, but even when you're just around the house, it's nice to have additional protection from accidental spills. Now, both tablets use a USB-C port for charging and connecting accessories, which brings me to the stylus and keyboard options. The iPad 10 is compatible with the first generation Apple Pencil, which costs $99. It pairs and charges using a cable, and it requires a USB to lightning adapter. The iPad is also compatible with the newer USB-C Apple Pencil, which charges and pairs with a wire but doesn't require an adapter. It costs $79. It doesn't offer pressure sensitivity, but it does magnetically attach to the side of the iPad. The Tab S9 FE comes with a free S Pen, which can be stored on the side or on the back of the tablet. It has a programmable button and it doesn't need to be charged in order to write or draw. Now, in terms of the actual writing experience, the Apple Pencil has a firm tip, so it's a little harsher when it hits the glass and it feels like you're writing on a single sheet of paper that's placed on a hard surface. The S Pen has a softer tip to it, so when it hits the glass, it gives a little, and it feels more like you're writing on a full pad of paper where the pages compress as you press down. Now, one isn't objectively better than the other for every single use and it's going to come down to which one feels better for you. So as always, I hope this description helps you make a choice. Now, as far as the camera systems, the iPad has a more capable rear facing camera in terms of resolution and frame rate, and both tablets have a 12 megapixel front facing camera. And here's a quick sample. Here's a camera and microphone test of the iPad 10 and the Tab S9 FE. This should give you a pretty good idea of the type of image quality that you're going to get and the type of audio quality that you should expect from each tablet. Now, both tablets also have the front facing camera on the long edge, so you're always properly framed during video calls. Now, when we talked about gaming, I mentioned the performance of the iPad's A14 Bionic, and the Tab S9 FE's Exynos 1380. So let's quickly look at single and multi-core performance where we see the Apple chip pull ahead. We also see it's scored noticeably higher in GPU performance, which helps explain some of the differences we saw. Now, of course, these are just benchmark scores. So what about just typical real life use? Well, if you're surfing the web, watching video or going on social media, it doesn't really matter that much. You can easily do that with both tablets, but the iPad does feel snappier and more responsive, and I would expect it to continue to perform better for longer. Now, if you're doing something like a very heavy video editing, then again the iPad would be a better choice. When multitasking, the iPad can run two apps in split view, plus additional apps in a slide over window. The Tab S9 FE can run three tiled apps at the same time with more flexibility when it comes to how much real estate each app takes. It can also run multiple floating windows, which can be resized, and you can even change the transparency. Now, both tablets have a customizable dock, but the Tab S9 FE also has a super handy side panel for quick access. Now, both tablets can be used as additional displays for compatible desktops and laptops. Apple calls this feature sidecar and Samsung calls it second screen. These are great features and you should all use them, but if you're looking for more of a laptop replacement, the Tab S9 FE has DeX, which I love, but there is one limitation here. So if you're new to Samsung, DeX essentially reboots the tablet with an OS that looks very similar to what you get on a laptop. You've got a task bar where you can minimize and see active apps. You have an actual desktop with icons, and you can run multiple floating windows or snap windows to the side of the display. But unlike with the higher end Tab S9, S9+ and S9 Ultra, you can't connect an external monitor and run a dual display setup. The iPad 10 does let you mirror your display to an external display, but it doesn't stretch out to fill the entire monitor because the iPad 10 doesn't fully support stage manager, and it's not an extended display. So when it comes to being a laptop replacement, it's still a win for the Tab S9 FE, but not quite as good as what you get with the higher end models. Now, battery life is always interesting because it comes down to what you actually do. So comparing these devices when they're new, I'm looking at about 10 hours on the iPad 10, about 13 to 14 hours on a Tab S9 FE. Again, depending on what I was doing. Now, of course, these times are not of me gaming the entire time, and they include things like surfing the web, watching video, using social media apps, and working with productivity apps. Now, when you're looking at available apps, the Google Play Store, the Galaxy Store and the Apple App Store have a ton of options for pretty much everything that you need. In general, I'm going to give the edge to the iPad 10 because the apps seem to be better optimized for a tablet. But as I've said in recent videos, the gap continues to shrink. Several creative apps like Affinity Photo and Procreate are only available for the iPad, but it's great to see that there's an Android version of Luma Fusion. Now, both tablets run the latest available operating systems and Samsung promises four years of OS upgrades and five years of security updates. Now, Apple devices typically get longer support than that. So when I take into account the improved CPU and GPU performance, I'm going to give the iPad the edge in terms of longevity. I also want you to consider other products that you own which make up your ecosystem. Now, Samsung has made some really impressive improvements over the past few years, adding much needed integration between multiple devices, wireless file and text sharing, then additional cross device integrations. And even though the gap again continues to shrink, Apple's ecosystem is still more complete and more tightly integrated due to the fact that they have full control over the hardware and software on all of their devices. Now, when we look at configuration options and prices from the official stores, we already talked about the storage options, but both the 64 and 256 gigabyte models of the iPad 10 come with four gigabytes of RAM. with the Tab S9 FE, the 128 gigabyte model comes with six gigs of RAM and the 256 gigabyte model comes with eight. So here's how I look at this choice. The iPad is more powerful and will be more capable if you plan on keeping your device for many years and you like to play more demanding games at higher settings or performing other resource intensive tasks. It also offers better optimized apps, access to some creative specific apps and better longterm support. The Tab S9 FE is smaller and lighter. It offers additional protection with an IP 68 rating. It comes with a free S Pen, more storage, expandable storage, more capable multitasking, and better battery life. Now, you should see how the Tab S9 Ultra compares with the previous model. You know what I always say, buy it nice or buy it twice. Good luck and see you soon.Just like the iPad Pro, Samsung's flagship Tab S9 isn't made to appeal to the masses with its premium price, no doubt it offers a really good screen and performance, you sometimes just want a good looking tablet that doesn't feel too expensive but also serviceable at the same time, this is where the Galaxy Tab S9 FE fills in the gap, it looks pretty with a very similar aluminum build and design, and it costs almost half the price of the Tab S9 for the same amount of storage, which is really insane. So, after using it for two weeks, I have some thoughts and here's my review. Compared to the Tab S9, the Tab S9 FE has a slightly smaller screen at 10.9-inches and the bezels are slightly thicker, which gives it around the same dimensions and meanwhile, it is also thicker and heavier but despite that, I still find it very manageable even after holding for 30 minutes. The 10.9-inch display is a 1440p IPS LCD panel that refreshes at 90Hz, which is an improvement over what's offered on the Tab S7 FE previously, and though it lacks the color punch you get on an AMOLED display, it still looks decent for content consumption, not to mention the dual stereo speakers tuned by AKG with Dolby Atmos support, they sound pretty good and I daresay it is on par with the M1 iPad Air. The tablet features a fingerprint reader that's built into the power button, which I very much prefer to under display ones, it has pogo pins at the bottom to power the same book keyboard cover as the Tab S9, which I'm unfortunately not provided with the review unit, but it does come with a non-battery powered S Pen which can be attached magnetically to the top or back of the tablet, and speaking of the S Pen, I love how responsive and precise it is for scribbling on the tablet which is all thanks to the 90Hz display, if you intend to do art on it, Samsung does sell a Creator Edition S Pen that works with the tablet and has better precision. What really amazes me about the Tab S9 FE is the IP68 water and dust resistance that no other similar class tablets are offering at this time, though to be honest I don't see any real world use case for now and this will probably appeal to those who watches Netflix by the pool or in a bathtub, even the provided S Pen is IP68 water and dust resistant, which is really unexpected, but it’s a good thing that Samsung didn't leave out such durability on a cheaper device. The Tab S9 FE is powered by the Exynos 1380 SoC that also powers the Galaxy A54 5G, you also get 8GB of RAM and up to 256GB of expandable storage, the former is a big step down from the Galaxy Tab S9 but unless you want to push the graphics quality in games, the Tab S9 FE actually performs pretty well as a productivity tablet, I encountered very minor stutters in switching apps and scrolling that I would say it is totally negligible, I'm very impressed with how optimized the UI is but as usual, most Android apps are still terrible at supporting tablet screens, Samsung DeX is available on the Tab S9 FE if you prefer a PC desktop like experience, but you can't expand the tablet's display to an external monitor because the USB-C port doesn't support display output and only has USB 2.0 transfer speeds, this isn't going to be a big deal for most people but I think it is something that Samsung should have included as it did on the older Tab S7 FE. The cameras on the tablet are very serviceable, you get a single 12MP camera on the back and an 8MP camera on the front, thought don't expect them to be as good as a phone camera but at least if you want to take some casual photos on it, they are really good for tablet standards, they both also support video recording at 4K 30fps, but I'm not sure why my unit's main camera is limited to just 1080p for whatever reasons, let me know in the comments if you faced the same thing on your unit. The Galaxy Tab S9 FE have no problems lasting up to two days if you are daily driving it as a productivity tablet, but I realized that standby times aren't that great as the battery can totally be depleted in 4 days if you aren't doing anything on it, although the saving grace here is Samsung's 45W fast charging, which can juice up a dead battery in 90 minutes and overall, I have no major complains about it. In my opinion, I think this is the most sensible FE product that Samsung has ever made, mainly because there isn't a lot of competition in the Android tablet market, and there is a clear price difference between the flagship Tab S9, the Tab S9 FE is obviously targeted at Apple's entry-level iPad and the M1 iPad Air, and I think it serves a great value proposition over these two when it comes to the hardware features, but definitely not when it comes to performance and the quality of apps you get on iPadOS, but even so, I think this is a better value tablet for media consumption and basic productivity due to its 16:10 aspect ratio that works really well.- As soon as we compare these two displays, we immediately see some super important differences. You see, there are times where you can get a better value by spending less money, but there are also times when spending more is actually worth it. So when Samsung released the FE or Fan Edition version of the Tab S9, I was super curious to see if it's a better value than the flagship version or if more is actually more. And to be clear, there's a massive price difference right now with the FE version being half the price of the flagship model. Now, starting out with the displays, they're very close in terms of size, they have the same aspect ratio. You have 16 by 10, which makes them great for watching content. But in terms of specs, that's pretty much where the similarities end. The Tab S9 has an 11 inch dynamic AMOLED 2X display, which offers 120 hertz adaptive refresh rate, a resolution of 1600 by 2560, and a pixel density of 274 pixels per inch. The Tab S9 FE has a 10.9 inch IPS LCD display, which offers a slower 90 hertz adaptive refresh rate, a lower resolution of 1440 by 2304, and a lower pixel density of 249 pixels per inch. In terms of image quality, the FE display is actually quite good and I'm super happy with the image quality for watching video and for playing games. I also love that we're getting 90 hertz versus the 50 hertz we got on the Tab S7 FE. But there's no question that the dynamic AMOLED 2X display on the flagship model is the better display. Colors seem to pop off the screen, we're getting outstanding blacks, better contrast, and the UI animations look smoother. Overall, I'm clearly going to give the edge to the Tab S9, but it's definitely not twice as good as a Tab S9 FE. The two tablets have a similar design with a full aluminum frame and back. They have the same footprint, but the Tab S9 is a bit thinner. I do love that Samsung was able to bring the IP68 rating down to the FE version, giving both tablets protection from water and dust. This is great if you take your tablet with you to work or school or when you travel, but it's also a super nice feature if you're using it around the house and you have a dog with an aggressive tail. Now, both tablets offer face recognition for biometric authentication and a more secure fingerprint sensor. With the Tab S9, we're getting an under display fingerprint sensor and with the FE, it's integrated into the power button. Both sensors have worked great for me and are super responsive and accurate, but I prefer the under display version on the Tab S9 because it's more natural to how I hold the tablet. And both tablets have a micro SD card slot, so we can upgrade the internal storage by up to one terabyte and we can use that internal storage for photos, videos, files, and for most apps. Now, continuing to look around the edges, we're getting four AKG tuned speakers on the Tab S9 versus two on the FE. And the flagship model definitely has a more full sound. The audio seems warmer and has more presence to it, which makes it a better choice for watching content. Another area where I noticed a difference is gaming. Now, I play a lot on my tablets and I was really curious to see how these processors match up. So I was able to play my usual games like Genshin, Asphalt, and PUBG, and of course some less demanding games on both tablets, but there was an obvious difference in both processing power and GPU performance, which did have an impact on more resource-intensive games. We'll quickly go over benchmarks in the performance section, but there's no question that Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip in the Tab S9 is more capable than the Exynos 1380 in the FE version. Using PUBG as an example, gameplay was smoother and more responsive on the Tab S9 and I could play with graphics set to smooth and frame rate set to 90 FPS. I could also set graphics anywhere from balanced to HDR and frame rate set to extreme or ultra HD for graphics and ultra for frame rate. With the FE model, I was limited to high frame rate, whether graphics were set to smooth, balanced or HD, and that was as good as it got so I definitely couldn't get to 90 FPS. Playing Genshin Impact, I had a very similar experience where it was playable on both devices, but performed better on the Tab S9, again, because of the more capable processor and the additional RAM, which I'll discuss in a bit. If gaming is a priority for you, then looking ahead, we know that game developers are going to push the CPU and GPU and games are going to evolve and start to demand more and more resources. When I look to keep a device for at least four or five years, I'm always going to opt for the tablet that has better CPU and GPU performance than I need right now so that it continues to perform well in the future. Now, if you wanna stream and play Xbox Games with the Xbox Game Pass app, you can pair an Xbox controller with both tablets and have extremely smooth gameplay as long as you have a reliable internet connection. Now, both tablets start out with 120 gigabytes of storage and have a 256 gigabyte model. So there's no advantage in terms of space for games and you can't really go wrong here. Now, speaking of places where you can't go wrong, if you're looking for great deals on one of these tablets or new tech in general, check out today's sponsor, Best Buy, and their mobile holiday deals. When you use the app, you get a first look at Best Buy drops, which means you're getting better savings on hot or limited inventory products. Best Buy has great prices and a price match guarantee. And My Best Buy members get exclusive offers on thousands of products. You can get an additional $60 off this wireless optical gaming mouse from Razer and some great discounts on gaming keyboards. Plus, if you shop in store, you can just have a blue shirt scan your digital member ID from the app and all of your in-store purchases are attached to your My Best Buy account. So if you wanna save some money on a gift or something for yourself, make sure that you download the Best Buy app now for great holiday deals. And thank you to Best Buy for sponsoring this portion of the video. Now, back to the tablets. Another factor to consider is the ability to expand the functionality of each tablet by adding a keyboard case and a stylus. Now, both tablets are compatible with the same two versions of book cover keyboard from Samsung. And of course, you can always use an external Bluetooth keyboard instead. Now, both tablets also come with a free S Pen, which can be stored on the side or on the back of the tablet, but only the Tab S9 has a Bluetooth enabled S Pen, which offers some wireless functionality for things like camera control and media playback. Now, in terms of the actual writing experience, it's virtually identical and neither requires a charge in order to write or draw. Looking at the camera systems, the Tab S9 has the 13 megapixel rear facing camera versus 8 megapixel on the Tab S9. Both tablets have a 12 megapixel selfie camera. And here's a quick sample. This is a camera and microphone test of the Tab S9 and the Tab S9 Fe. This should give you a pretty good idea of the type of image quality that you're going to get and the type of audio quality that you should expect for video calls. Now, I briefly mentioned performance when we talked about gaming. So let's quickly look at the single and multi-core performance of the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip and the Exynos 1380, where we see the Snapdragon chip pull way ahead. We also see it score considerably higher in GPU performance, which helps explain some of the differences we saw when gaming. Now, of course, these are just benchmark scores, so beyond the impact on gaming, what about typical real life use? Well, if you're surfing the web, watching video, or going on social media, you'll definitely be able to do that with both tablets, but the Tab S9 feels snappier and more responsive. Even just navigating around the UI and opening and closing apps, you can notice the difference and I would expect it to continue to perform better for longer. Now, of course, for more demanding things like photo or video editing, the Tab S9 is the more capable option. But always keep in mind what you plan on doing because you are paying twice as much. Both tablets run the latest Android and One UI so you're getting all the latest features like three tiled apps, pop-up windows, and of course decks, which is awesome. Essentially, it reboots the tablet and gives you an operating system that is very similar to a desktop OS. You're getting a task bar, a desktop with icons, multiple windows, you can snap windows, and you can use a keyboard case to transform your tablet to more of a laptop replacement. One major difference is that you can only connect an external display and then run a super capable dual display setup with the Tab S9. The FE version doesn't have this feature. But you can use either tablet as an additional display for your laptop or desktop with Samsung's Second Screen. And this is a super handy feature when you travel. As far as OS and security updates, Samsung promises four years of OS updates and five years of security updates, which is nice. And again, keep in mind the difference in performance if you plan on keeping your tablet for a while. Looking at battery life, the flagship model has a larger 8,400 mAh battery versus 8,000 on the FE. But Samsung rates the FE model at 18 hours versus 15 on the Tab S9. Now, that I have the entire Tab S9 and FE lineup, I'm reshooting my battery test. So go ahead and subscribe to be notified when it's published. Now, both tablets offer 45 watt fast charging, but neither ships with a charging adapter so that's something that you'll need to get separately. Now, when we look at the configuration options, both start out with 120 gigabytes of internal storage. The Tab S9 comes with 8 gigs of RAM, and the FE model comes with 6 gigs of RAM. If we upgrade to 256 gigabytes of storage on both models, then we're getting 12 gigs of RAM on the Tab S9 and 8 on the FE. So there's no question that the Tab S9 is the more capable tablet. It has a better display, a much more powerful chip with better CPU and GPU performance, better speakers, a better camera system, and a more capable S Pen. But the Tab S9 FE is an outstanding value when you consider the price. If you don't need the best performance or the absolute best display, you're getting a lot of the same features with better battery life for half the price. Now, you should see how the Tab S9 FE compares with the iPad 10. Hopefully this comparison was helpful. Click on my face to subscribe. You know what I always say, buy it nice or buy it twice. Good luck and see you soon.In August we got acquainted with the Galaxy Tab S9 series, with the S9 Ultra model showcasing the best Samsung has to offer in the premium Android tablet segment, and now it's time to meet the Galaxy Tab S9 FE - Fan Edition, the less extravagant alternative proposed to consumers with "normal" budgets and more moderate expectations. Being initially for a lower budget, Samsung has prepared the Galaxy Tab S9 FE in only two variants, FE and FE+, leaving the "behemoth" Tab S9 Ultra as a go-to solution for those who want everything to the max. We thus have the Tab S9 FE of 10.9 and the Tab S9 FE+ of 12.4 , both with an LCD screen and a mid-performance Exynos chipset. I remind you that starting with the Tab S9 series, Samsung offers OLED screens on all models in the range, including the basic Tab S9, ensuring that the premium tablet offering is differentiated in a way that leaves no room for interpretation. From a distance, you could be forgiven if you can't spot any difference between the Galaxy Tab S9 FE and the standard model. Both come in a brushed aluminum case, with almost identical weight and dimensions. The differences are so small that you can easily use the Galaxy Tab S9 accessories with the FE model. Samsung even retained the IP68 certification, a feature rarely found in tablets in this price range. Even if not entirely, the Galaxy Tab S9 FE still seems like a premium tablet. But since I don't look at things from a distance, let's see where the "savings" were made. One clue would be the lack of the S Pen zone on the FE, which is specifically marked on the back of the standard S9. Fortunately, this is only a design omission, as the S Pen included in the FE accessory package can be placed both on the back of the tablet and on the side frame. And as a result of choosing an LCD screen, the fingerprint sensor is now located on the side frame, integrated into the Power button. Far from being a compromise, the capacitive sensor is in an easily accessible location and gives good results, with fingerprint recognition being almost as fast as an optical solution integrated under the screen. Another indication of cost cuts would be the abandonment of the four-speaker configuration, with the Galaxy Tab S9 FE having only two speakers, designed for a stereo listening experience in landscape mode. So, if you're one of those who watch TikTok videos with the tablet in a vertical position, you'll have a less than great audio experience with the speakers in this top-bottom arrangement. On the other hand, the sound itself, "tuned by AKG", is of good fidelity and can rise to a reasonable volume without encountering distortion problems. A distinctive feature compared to the non-FE model, the LCD screen is well lit enough even for outdoor use, has vivid colors, and excellent image clarity. Yes, the LCD used doesn't have HDR10+ and can't reproduce the perfect black specific to OLED solutions, but it does more than a decent job. Even when placed side by side, you need to know what to look for to spot the differences between the S9 FE and the more expensive S9 model, released at the end of this summer. So, can the Galaxy Tab S9 FE be a credible alternative to Tab S9? Starting with a good first impression, the temptation would be to say yes. But as always, the truth is somewhere in between. With a price of $450 for the basic FE equipment, compared to the $800 for the Tab S9, it's hard to say no to a tablet like this. The assembly, finishes, and feeling are all right, and the screen, even if it's LCD, is not bad at all. However, you will fully feel the difference elsewhere: specifically, in the performance difference between the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 processor used by Tab S9, which is also found on the S23 Ultra, and Samsung's proprietary Exynos 1380 on the FE, also found on the Galaxy A54 for example. And the performance levels firmly position the Galaxy Tab S9 FE outside the circle of power users. Delivered with only 6GB of RAM in the basic configuration, the Tab S9 FE should at least be ordered in the 8GB/256GB memory version to enter that specification area for which Samsung optimizes the One UI firmware in the long term. And speaking of One UI, the current Samsung firmware based on Android 14 and One UI 6.0 seems a bit unfinished. Even if I didn't come across serious bugs, the fluidity of the interface and the tendency to "hang" at times contrast strongly with the One UI 5.1 experience on the Tab S9. I tend to believe that the weaker chipset is not the problem here, but rather the firmware part, the Galaxy Tab S9 FE needing some optimizations in this chapter. However, One UI features are essentially identical for both tablet series, with the Galaxy Tab S9 FE offering the same set of applications and optimizations for the S Pen, for example. Again, Samsung shows that the FE series is not for power users, restricting the use of DEX mode only to the tablet screen, without the possibility of connecting an external monitor. You can use both the Book Cover keyboard for emulating a mini-laptop or a keyboard and mouse set for PC, connected via Bluetooth. The Dex experience isn't bad, provided you limit yourself to at most two apps displayed simultaneously on the 10.9" screen. Likewise, if you want to benefit from Air Actions support, you will have to buy the S Pen Pro accessory separately, the one included in the package not offering this option. But as a pleasant surprise, the gaming experience is decent, without stuttering or lag effects. However, it's good to know that in some demanding games, like PUBG, the detail level is automatically reduced to medium and should be kept that way to get a playable framerate. Considering the chipset used, it's no wonder the tablet doesn't heat up much. Moreover, Samsung claims that the 8000 mAh battery can offer more than 20 hours of autonomy in video mode. Moving on to charging, Samsung says there is support for 45W fast charging, but I tested this claim with a 65W AC adapter and a USB-C cable certified for 45W charging, original Samsung accessories, and measured only 36-37W power consumed and almost 90 minutes for a full charge. Well, draw your own conclusions. In the "other features" chapter, we have a main 12MP camera and an 8MP front camera. Neither is great, at least not in artificial light, but for video calls and those moments when you can't be bothered to reach for a better-equipped phone, it's probably enough. It's also good to know that you can film with the tablet up to 4K resolution at 30 fps. Now let's take another look at the accessories. Even if Samsung recommends it for on-the-go use, the Outdoor Cover should be an essential accessory for anyone with small children around, or if you're clumsy. Built like a tank, the detachable protective case uses hard plastic for crush and twist protection, while shock and impact protection is provided by the very resistant rubber side frame. The Samsung Outdoor Cover has a retractable stand that allows the tablet to be placed in landscape mode. Also, the space for the S Pen accessory is additionally protected, both against impact and accidental loss of the pen. Before ordering, you should know that the Outdoor Cover is a heavy-duty protective case, which adds quite a bit to the thickness and weight of the tablet. If you don't foresee very careless use of the tablet, then maybe it's worth taking a look at other Samsung cases. And we have another interesting optional accessory: the S Pen Creator Edition is a significant upgrade from the S Pen version included in the Tab S9 FE package, with support for Air Actions. If the first can be thought of as a pen or pencil with a thin tip, the S Pen Creator Edition is a little heavier and thicker, enough to feel like you're using a real pencil and not something "toy-like." Helpful is also the tip that very well imitates the shape of a drawing pencil lead. However, to avoid the feeling of slipping on the glossy glass, I also recommend the Note Paper Screen accessory. As the name suggests, this is like a kind of film made of transparent plastic and is placed over the display. The matte-type foil has a specially chosen texture to mimic the feeling of sliding on real paper, and I think it's a must-have, if you know you will work a lot with the pen. The good part is that whichever S Pen version you choose to use, you won't have problems with lag or insufficient sensitivity, both working flawlessly, as you would expect from a latest generation Samsung device. And speaking of accessories, let's discuss a bit about the new Galaxy Buds FE. Worth watching in future promotional campaigns, the Buds FE come at $100 and are a good alternative to the Galaxy Buds2 Pro, which were around $220 at launch. Both are offered in almost identical cases, with a matte finish and the Samsung logo embossed on the Buds2 Pro case, respectively, glossy plastic and printed logo on the Buds FE case. Buds2 Pro have a slightly rounder shape, touch operation, and feel a bit heavier in hand. In contrast, Buds FE have more easily noticeable joint areas and don't feel quite as premium. Fortunately, the performance differences between the two aren't that big. Tested side by side, both have decent bass and a decently high volume. The Hi-Fi sensation is clearly superior on the Buds2 Pro, which come with dedicated speakers for bass and mid-highs, hence probably the noticeable weight difference. While I wouldn't go as far as to say it disappoints, listening on the Buds FE has some downsides regarding the playback of mid-high frequencies, some instruments and nuances being covered by the strong bass. The noise-canceling functionality is also clearly weaker on the FE, with Buds2 Pro maintaining a decisive advantage here. Overall, the Buds FE are certainly not to be avoided, but neither to be bought blindly at full price. And the last but not least interesting accessory of today is this SmartTag2. Along with the Tab S9 FE, Samsung also unveiled the latest version of the SmartTag accessory. Even though it retains the basic functionality unchanged, SmartTag2 comes with a much-improved exterior design and extra features like ultra-wideband connectivity, which was only found in the SmartTag Plus series so far. If the first SmartTag version was rather rudimentary in design, shaped like a slightly thicker plastic coin, SmartTag2 is a much more refined gadget, which you'll probably hate to hide somewhere in your luggage. However, Samsung has also made changes that you might not like, with SmartTag2 no longer being as invisible as the first generation. If the former was basically a coin that you could easily attach anywhere you needed, the new version is more like a stylish keychain, with Samsung seeming to want to get rid of the undesired stalker accessory image, used by jealous lovers. Instead, you can attach the SmartTag2 to a belt or other thicker objects than a cord. And if you really want full flexibility, know that there is also a Rugged Case equipped with a self-locking ring, working like a hook for attaching to various objects, such as luggage or a pet's collar. Samsung has also kept the programmable function button. For example, you can set an emergency message from the SmartThings app, a simple button press sending an SMS with your location data to a trusted person. It should be mentioned that this functionality is not guaranteed in every situation, for example, if you are in an isolated location, and there is no other nearby device to relay the triggered alert. Alright, now that we're done with the accessories, let's answer that thousand points question: is the Galaxy Tab S9 FE a credible Tab S9 alternative? Yes and no. Yes, if you fall into the category of users targeted by Samsung. Are you a student or simply in need of a tablet to work on, possibly on the go? If you want to use the tablet at home for movies, email, or just wasting time on social media, the Tab S9 FE performs admirably in all these roles. It's a slim and lightweight tablet with premium finishes and enough processing power to handle many scenarios. Moreover, it's a tablet priced fairly for what it offers. On the other hand, I don't recommend the Tab S9 FE if you already own a top-tier phone and want your future tablet to be an extension of it. You will feel the performance difference, and we all know what it's like to switch between devices that aren't on the same level. Also, if you want to do video editing on a tablet, play games after manually maxing out all settings, or simply want an experience completely free from compromises, then the Tab S9, with its OLED screen and Snapdragon 8 Gen 2, and significantly pricier, remains the obvious choice. And now, let me know in the comments section: what do you think of the Galaxy Tab S9 FE? And while you're here, please subscribe to Techniqulities! Take care and good luck to you all!okay so I've made a short on this and I've made videos about these Monster tablets in the past and every single time people get really into them and I'm really into them but the question that always keeps coming up every time is are these actually iPad Killers like is an iPad killer a real thing so let's talk about it this is the newest highest end Android Tablet from Samsung the Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra and it's even more ridiculous than the previous year's already crazy Ultra and I love it so I've already made a video on the tab S7 plus and then last year the tab S8 Ultra if you haven't already seen that I'll link it below that was last year's version and so now just like the rest of Samsung's recent announcements this new one mostly looks the same as last year's version but all the changes they've made are in the same direction just making it even more capable so you've got this gigantic 14.6 inch tablet that I mean it feels like I'm holding a small TV in my hands it somehow also razor thin with a huge battery inside and it actually doesn't snap in half despite looking like it probably should be susceptible to that but hey watch The X video for yourself if you don't believe me it survives better than a lot of other devices have this year though a new Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy inside plus a new Vapor chamber cooling system under the hood so there's going to be an even higher ceiling for performance for everything it's already good at we've seen this thing do multitasking well for years and be quick to scroll around and open and close apps with normal usage and now it'll do better at gaming and video editing and potentially also last a bit longer on that same 11 200 milliamp hour battery that's bigger than any battery that's ever been in an iPad this year the quad speaker setup is also now made up of 20 larger speakers which is a pretty big jump and I'm not ready to call these the best sounding speakers in any tablet quite yet that's still that goes to the iPad Pro still but these sure do get really loud with very little Distortion and you can flip on Dolby Atmos audio if you want some pretty impressive surround sound effects for music or videos or games and then this entire tablet is now ip68 water and dust resistant for the first time which means it's safe to not just splash it with water but literally completely submerge the whole thing underwater and it'll be totally fine which is crazy I don't know any situation where you would end up with a tablet underwater maybe you're recklessly watching Netflix next to a pool or something and then you drop it in I don't know that but if you did it will still be fine but then on top of that this S Pen also comes in the Box again and this thing also now has an ip68 rating of its own and it also now supports bi-directional charging but not the bi-directional charging you're probably thinking of when you can accept charge from the tablet but also charge other things no I just mean whatever Direction the pen faces when you magnetize it to the back of the tablet it will work and charge perfectly fine which is better than last year what I'm surprised doesn't come in the box is any charging brick I mean for a tablet that does everything this thing is actually capable of 45 watt charging which is really solid but the only way to get that is to buy a charger something like this anchor Prime desktop charger which I would totally get over any Samsung first party charger because it's gallium nitride it's smaller and then it also has multi-port charging up to 240 Watts Max output so you could literally charge a laptop full speed and the tablet full speed at the same time but then of course they also make a really convenient battery Bank option so this this is the anchor Prime 250 watt battery bank with two USBC ports and one USB a port it has a built-in inductive wireless charging pad so that can charge the battery Bank up to 100 watts and then there's an app connected to it that lets you configure the display and optimize charging or even play a sound to find it it's way more advanced than any charger that's ever come in any Samsung bucks so shout out to anchor for sponsoring this video and I'll put a link in the description for you to check this one out right below that like button but the point is I mean you've seen all the specs now they're all huge numbers it's a 14 and a half inch screen in my hands it's 120 hertz it's an 11 200 milliamp hour battery it's quad speakers it's the minimum 12 gigs of RAM it's a terabyte of internal storage with up to another terabyte of micro SD card storage all these numbers are great but it's actually using this tablet and actually holding it it's it's hard to describe it to you but it's even more hilariously fun so I'm personally partial to like media idea consumption on devices like this like I would just want to watch YouTube videos on a gigantic screen take them with me download them offline watch them on flights with my free time like it's already amazing for that and honestly I think that's what most people do on tablets a lot of the time but of course for all the additional stuff that tablet power users are going to be doing there is just so much more that this thing is capable of basically it's at the Forefront of tablets there's all of Samsung's multi-window multitasking features and pop-up windows on that 16x10 aspect ratio display all of the stylus features which if you want to use a stylus on a tablet it feels like Samsung and Apple are really the only ones taking it seriously but you know I'm using it to sign documents every once in a while but there are some people whose entire workflows go through this thing and then you can't forget about decks there's a whole clever keyboard folio case that I didn't even have here for this one but I had it for the S8 Ultra and that adds a whole nother Dimension and Dex mode has been super used useful while giving you that desktop experience with independent windows and you can plug it into an even larger display if you want to it's more powerful than anything Apple has even tried to do on the iPad and all of that isn't even mentioning that this is probably the biggest camera viewfinder anyone has ever used Plus on the front that little Notch up there I've mentioned this before but there's two selfie cameras a front-facing normal camera and an ultra wide that can do auto framing in videos or in video calls similar to what Apple calls Center Stage except these cameras are actually in the right place on the long side of the tablet so all that being said can this be an iPad killer that's the question we keep asking and it's a good it's a real question like this is clearly competing against the iPad Pro the biggest baddest iPad Pro but it's going to have a lot of things a lot of features a lot of numbers to one-up the iPad Pro right it's got a bigger screen it's got bigger speakers it's got external expandable storage it's got the fingerprint reader that the iPad Pro doesn't have and all of that costs a hundred dollars more than the equivalent iPad Pro this reminds me of the conversation we've had about Sony phones like in the world of Android phones Sony is out here making incredibly well-equipped super high-end phones with a ton of Enthusiast features and expandable memory and manual controls that the competition like just straight up doesn't offer and that's only really at the expense of a little bit of automatic mode usability and price like they just they're expensive they cost more and while it's really easy to point out all the obvious benefits and advantages to all these extra features and these cool things that it does it turns out that the number of people who will actually take advantage of these features is Tiny and I mean they're everywhere on YouTube but when it comes to actually voting with their wallets most people end up just going with the sort of more standard one and I feel like there is a similar phenomenon Happening Here for whatever reason videos about these tablets do numbers they're they're going crazy like people love to see these on video and I like talking about them but then when it comes to actually buying them people uh the the ecosystem effect is way stronger than any uh YouTube comments would suggest people love flocking to the iPad for iMessage and FaceTime and all these other things but to keep it even more simple I like I have this analogy that I really like even better people like bigger screens as long as it doesn't sacrifice too much in the other areas of the device so take the MacBook Air for example that 13-inch MacBook Air was one of the best selling laptops for years it was Apple's number one best-selling laptop for a long time and people wanted a bigger screen but the only way that they could get a bigger screen and still buy an Apple product was to move all the way up to the 16-inch MacBook Pro which was just dramatically more expensive I mean it was Overkill most people did not need that much computer and so people would actually start to drift away and go buy a different slightly bigger screened laptop from some other company so much so that Apple finally this year decided to introduce a larger 15-inch MacBook Air and it turned out that's exactly what people wanted they just want the bigger screen on the other end of this apple tried introducing a mini iPhone for two whole years which you would think is a brilliant idea if you only read YouTube comments but again it turns out most people want the bigger screen and so that ended up not selling enough it got discontinued and today we have a plus phone instead so this is a bigger screen tablet than the iPad Pro which is why it's so amazing and impressive to hold and look at but it's also a very different tablet from the iPad Pro it's 100 bucks more but it's an Android tablet it has a whole different feature set and for a lot of people that's too much sacrifice and a lot of people will continue to just get iPads but for those who are not looped into the ecosystem and who don't depend on these features this is a hell of a tablet thanks for watching catch you in the next one peace- When Samsung released the Tab S9 FE and FE+, they made things really interesting. But at the same time, choosing which tablet to get might be more confusing, so let's break it down. To make things a little bit easier, let's put these tablets up into two categories: the fan edition models and the flagship models. And this makes sense because essentially the features are the same for every tablet in each category with a few exceptions. And here's a quick look at the starting prices. So starting out with the displays, both categories have an aspect ratio of 16:10, which makes them great for watching content. But in terms of specs, that's pretty much where the similarities end. The FE models have IPS/LCD displays, which offer a slower 90 hertz adaptive refresh rate with a good resolution and pixel density. All three flagship models have Dynamic AMOLED 2X displays, which offer a faster 120 hertz adaptive refresh rate, a higher resolution when comparing the same display sizes so you can see more content without having to scroll, and we're also getting a higher pixel density when comparing the same display sizes, which gives us a sharper image. And in terms of image quality, the FE displays are actually quite good, and I'm super happy with the image quality for watching video and for playing games. I also love that we're getting 90 hertz versus the 60 hertz we got on the Tab S7 FE, which was the last fan edition model. But there's no question that the dynamic AMOLED display on the flagship models is the better display. Colors seem to just pop right off the screen. We're getting outstanding blacks, better contrast, and the UI animations look smoother. Overall, the advantage in terms of image quality clearly goes to the flagship models. But keep in mind the cost because the flagship displays are not twice as good as the fan edition ones. Now all five tablets have a similar design with a full aluminum frame and back, but when comparing the tablets of the same size, the flagship models are thinner. Now, I love that Samsung was able to bring IP68 rating down to the FE version. This gives all the tablets protection from water and dust. Now, this is really nice if you take your tablet with you when you travel or if you take it to school with you every day. But it's also a super nice feature when you're using it around the house and you have a dog with a somewhat aggressive tail. Now, all five tablets offer face recognition for biometric authentication and a more secure fingerprint sensor. Now with the flagship models, we're getting an under display sensor, and with the FE models, it's integrated into the power button. Now, both sensors have worked really great for me, and they're super responsive and accurate. But I prefer the under display version because it's more natural to how I hold the tablet. All five tablets also have a micro SD card slot, so you can upgrade the internal storage by up to one terabyte. And you can use that storage for photos, for videos, for files, and for most apps. Now, continuing to look around the edges, we're getting four AKG-tuned speakers on the flagship models versus two on the FE. And the flagship models absolutely have a more full sound. The audio seems warmer, it has more presence to it, which actually makes them a better choice if you want to use the speakers on your tablet. Now, another factor to consider is the ability to expand the functionality of each tablet by adding a keyboard case and a stylus. Now since the form factor of the flagship and the FE models is so similar, the Tab S9 and FE are compatible with the same two versions of the book cover keyboards from Samsung. And the same is true for the FE+ and the Tab S9+. And then, of course, you can always use an external Bluetooth keyboard with all of these tablets. All five tablets also come with a free S pen, which can be stored on the side or on the back of the tablet. But only the flagship models come with a Bluetooth enabled S pen, which offers some wireless functionality for things like camera control and media playback. Now in terms of the actual writing experience, it's virtually identical and no charges required in order to write and draw. It's only needed for the Bluetooth functionality with the flagship models. Now, one of the areas where Samsung had to create some differentiation is with processing power, and there are several critical implications here. So the flagship models come with the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip and the FE models come with the Exynos 1380, so let's quickly look at the single and multi-core performance. And here we can see that the Snapdragon chip definitely pulls ahead. We also see it's scored considerably higher in GPU performance. Now, of course, these are just benchmark scores. So what kind of impact is this gonna have during typical real life use? Well, if you're just surfing the web, watching video, or going on social media, you're definitely gonna be able to do that with any of these tablets. But the flagship models definitely feel snappier and more responsive. And even if you're just navigating around the UI and opening and closing apps, you're going to notice the difference. And I would expect the flagship models to continue and perform better for longer because of the additional headroom in terms of performance. Now, of course, for more demanding things, like photo and video editing, the flagship models are a more capable option, but always keep in mind what you actually plan on doing because you are paying quite a bit more. Now, another area where I definitely noticed a meaningful difference is with gaming. I play a lot on my tablets, and I was really curious to see how these processors would match up. So I was able to play my usual games like PUBG, Genshin Impact, Asphalt, and then, of course, some less demanding games. But there was a very obvious difference in both processing power and GPU performance, which did have an impact on my overall experience with more resource intensive games. Now using PUBG as an example, gameplay was smoother and more responsive on the flagship models, and I could play with graphics set to smooth and frame rate set to 90 FPS. I could also set graphics anywhere from balanced to HDR and frame rate set to extreme or Ultra HD for graphics and Ultra for frame rate. With the FE models, I was limited to high frame rate, weather graphics were set to smooth, balanced, or HD, and that was as good as it got. So I definitely didn't get to use the 90 FPS. Now playing Genshin Impact, I had a very similar experience where it's playable on all five tablets, but it performed better on the flagship models, again, because of the more capable processor and the additional RAM, which I'll discuss in a minute. So if gaming is a priority for you now, then looking ahead, we know that game developers are always going to push the CPU and GPU, and games are going to evolve and start to demand more and more resources. When I look to keep a device for at least four to five years or even longer, I'm always going to opt for the tablet that has better CPU and GPU performance than what I need right now. And that way it will continue to perform better in the future. Now if you want to stream and play Xbox games with the Xbox Game Pass app, you can pair an Xbox controller with all five tablets and then have extremely smooth gameplay as long as you have a reliable internet connection. In terms of storage, the Tab S9 FE, the Tab S9, and the Tab S9 FE+ start out with 128 gigabytes. Then, the Tab S9+ and the Tab S9 Ultra start out with 256. So that's something that you want to keep in mind if you play a lot of games and you need more storage. Now looking at the camera systems, we're getting different setups and features depending on which model and category you go with. But in terms of the front facing camera, all three flagships have the same setup, and then the two FE models have the same setup. And here's a quick sample. This is a camera and microphone test of the Tab S9 and the Tab S9 FE. This should give you a pretty good idea of the type of image quality that you're going to get and the type of audio quality that you should expect for video calls. Here's a camera and microphone test of the Tab S9+ and the Tab S9 FE+. This should give you a pretty good idea of the type of image quality that you're going to get and the type of audio quality that you should expect. Now, the Tab S9+ looks a little overexposed to me. All I did was press record, I didn't change any of the settings. The color is also definitely different on the FE+. It seems like a much warmer image and probably a better exposure, which is really interesting. Now, all five tablets run the latest Android and One UI, so you're getting all of the latest features, like three tiled apps, pop-up windows, and then, of course, decks, which is awesome. So essentially, it reboots the tablet and gives you an operating system that's very similar to a desktop OS. You're getting a task bar, a desktop with icons, multiple windows, you can snap windows, and you can use a keyboard case to transform your tablet into more of a laptop replacement. Now if you use decks, you can connect a keyboard and mouse to all five tablets. But one massive difference is that you can only connect an external display and run a dual display setup with the flagship models. The FE models don't have this ability. You can, however, use each of the five tablets as an additional display for your laptop or desktop with Samsung's Second Screen. And this is a super handy feature for me both in the office and when I travel. Now as far as OS and security updates, Samsung promised four years of OS updates and five years of security updates, which is nice. And again, keep in mind the difference in performance if you plan on keeping your tablet for a while. Now, in terms of battery life, we're getting larger battery sizes as we go up in tablet size. And you can check out this video if you wanna see a detailed battery drain test. Now, all five tablets offer 45 watts, super fast charging, but none of them ship with a charging adapter. So that's something you'll need to get separately. Now when we look at the configuration options, it's important that we look both at the RAM and storage options in the base and upgraded models. And remember that while only the Tab S9 Ultra is offered with one terabyte, you can expand the internal storage on all five tablets with a micro SD card. And there's no question that the flagship models are more capable. They have better display, a much more powerful chip with better CPU and GPU performance, better speakers, a better camera system, and a more capable S pen. But if you're on a budget and you don't need the best, the FE models are an outstanding value, and you're still getting a very good display, IP68 rating, a free S pen, and a lot of the same features for significantly less money. Now, you should check out the battery drain test. You know what I always say. Buy it nice or buy it twice. Good luck and see you soon.- If you look closely, you'll notice that even though the Tab S9+ and the Tab S9 FE+ look very similar, there are some incredibly meaningful differences for both average and power users. Neither of these tablets have the most powerful chip Samsung has put in a mobile device. That honor is currently reserved for the S24 Ultra and the rest of the S24 lineup, with the Snapdragon 8 gen 3 chip. And at the same time, processing power is one meaningful differentiator between these two tablets, along with the display, the speakers, the camera, multitasking, and the stylus. Keep in mind that we have to take price into account because we're looking at $999 for the base Tab S9+ versus 549 for the FE+. And thank you to Best Buy for sponsoring a portion of this video. Now I mentioned multitasking, which might be a little confusing because both tablets run the latest Android and One UI, and that means that you are technically getting all of the latest features, like three-tiled apps, pop-up windows, and then of course, DeX, which is awesome. Essentially, DeX reboots the tablet and gives it an operating system that's very similar to a desktop OS. You're getting a task bar, a desktop with icons, multiple windows, you can snap windows, and you can use a keyboard case to transform your tablet into more of a laptop replacement. But there is one important DeX feature that's only available on the Tab S9+, and that's the ability to connect an external display and run a super capable dual display setup. The FE+ version does not have this feature. You can, however, use either tablet as an additional display for your Windows laptop or desktop with Samsung's Second Screen, and I use this feature both in the office and when I travel. Now looking at the displays, both are 12.4 inches, and have the same aspect ratio of 16 by 10, which makes them great for watching content. But in terms of the actual specs, that's pretty much where the similarities end. The Tab S9+ has a Dynamic AMOLED 2X display, which offers 120 hertz adaptive refresh rate, a resolution of 1752 by 2800, and a pixel density of 266 pixels per inch. The Tab S9 FE+ has an IPS LCD display, which offers a slower 90 hertz adaptive refresh rate, a lower resolution of 1600 by 2560, and a lower pixel density of 243 pixels per inch. In terms of image quality, the FE+ display is very good. And for the price, we're getting terrific image quality for watching video and for playing games. And while we're not getting 120 hertz and the animations and scrolling are not as smooth as they are in the Tab S9+, we are getting 90 hertz, which is a step up from the previous FE model. Now having said that, there's no question that the Dynamic AMOLED 2X display on the flagship model is the superior display. Colors seem to pop off the screen, we're getting outstanding blacks, better contrast, and again, the UI animations and scrolling looks smoother. Overall, I have to give the edge to the Tab S9+, but I don't think that I would pay twice as much just for the display. As far as the overall design, the two tablets are very similar with a full aluminum frame in back. They have the same footprint, but the Tab S9+ is a bit thinner and lighter. I appreciate that Samsung was able to bring the IP68 rating down to the FE+ version, giving both tablets protection from water and dust. This is really valuable if you take your tablet with you when you travel or if you take it to work, but it's also a great feature when you're just around the house and you have a dog that likes to clear everything off the table with her tail. Both tablets offer face recognition for biometric authentication and a more secure fingerprint sensor. With the Tab S9+, we're getting an under-display sensor, and with the FE+, it's integrated into the power button. Now, both sensors have worked great for me and they're super responsive and accurate, but I prefer the under-display version on the Tab S9+ because it's more organic to how I hold the tablet. Now, both tablets also have a MicroSD card slot, so you can upgrade the internal storage by up to one terabyte, and you can use that storage for photos, for videos, files, and for most apps. Now, continuing to look around the edges, we're getting four AKG tuned speaker on the Tab S9+ versus two on the FE+. And the flagship model definitely has a more full sound. The audio seems warmer and has more presence to it, which makes it a better choice for watching content. Now, both tablets have a USB-C port for charging and connecting accessories, but we're looking at 3.2 on the Tab S9+ versus only 2.0 on the FE+. Now, depending on what type of games you play, you may or may not notice a difference. If you're just playing less demanding games, you can easily do that on both tablets, but as you start playing more resource-intensive games, like "Genshin Impact," "COD Mobile," and "PUBG," there's a noticeable difference in both processing power and GPU performance, which does have an impact on my gaming experience. I'll quickly cover benchmarks and the Performance section, but there's no question that Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8 gen 2 chip in the Tab S9+ is more capable than the Exynos 1380 in the FE+ version. Starting with "Genshin Impact," I was able to play it on both devices, but the game performed better on the Tab S9+, with smoother graphics and less lag because of the more capable processor and the additional RAM. When playing "PUBG," gameplay was smoother and more responsive on the Tab S9+. And I could play with Graphics set to Smooth and Frame Rate set to 90 FPS. I could also set graphics anywhere from Balanced to HDR and Frame Rate set to Extreme, or Ultra HD for Graphics and Ultra for Frame Rate. With the FE+ model, I was limited to High Frame Rate, whether graphics were set to Smooth, Balanced, or HD. And then, of course, since that was as good as it got, I could get nowhere near 90 FPS. If playing more demanding games is a priority for you, then we know that game developers are always going to push the CPU and GPU and games are going to continue to evolve and demand more and more resources. When I look to keep a device for at least four to five years or even more, I'm always going to opt for the tablet that has better CPU and GPU performance than what I need now so that it continues to perform well in the future. Now, if you want to stream and play Xbox Games with the Game Pass app, you can pair an Xbox controller with both tablets and have extremely smooth gameplay as long as you have a reliable internet connection. So you can't really go wrong here. And speaking of places where you can't go wrong, if you're looking for great deals on one of these tablets, or just tech in general, check out today's sponsor, Best Buy, and their Top Deals. They have some amazing daily and weekly top deals with tons of categories to choose from. From laptops and computers, TVs and projectors, to small and major appliances, plus a lot more. Best Buy has great prices and a Price Match Guarantee. And my Best Buy members get exclusive offers on thousands of products. Right now, you can save $1,600 off a 77 inch Samsung OLED TV. There are some great deals on both earbuds and over-the-ear headphones. You can pre-order the Samsung Galaxy S24 series and get up to $150 Best Buy e-gift card. And Best Buy also has some great discounts on gaming computers and accessories. So if you wanna save some money on a gift or something for yourself, check out Best Buy's Top Deals, and thank you to Best Buy for sponsoring this portion of the video. Now back to the tablets, another important factor for some users is the ability to expand the functionality of each tablet by adding a keyboard case and a stylus. Now, both tablets are compatible with the same two versions of the Book Cover Keyboard from Samsung. And of course, you can always use an external keyboard and mouse. Now, both tablets also come with a free S Pen, which can be stored on the side or on the back of the tablet, but only the Tab S9+ has a Bluetooth-enabled S Pen, which offers some wireless functionality for things like camera and media playback. Now in terms of the actual writing or drawing experience, for most users, it's virtually identical, and neither requires a charge in order to write or draw. Looking at the camera systems, the Tab S9+ has a 13 megapixel wide and an eight megapixel ultrawide versus two eight megapixel cameras on the Tab S9 FE+. Both tablets have a 12 megapixel selfie camera, and here's a short sample. Here's a camera and microphone test of the Tab S9+. This should give you a pretty good idea of the type of image quality that you're going to get. And the Tab S9+ looks a little overexposed me. All I did was press Record. I didn't change any of the settings. We quickly talked about performance in the Gaming section. So let's look at the single and multi-core performance of the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip and the Exynos 1380, where we see the Snapdragon chip pull way ahead. We also see a score considerably higher in GPU performance, which helps explain some of the meaningful differences we saw when gaming. But I know that not everyone games, and these are just benchmarks. So what about typical average real life use? Well, of course you can surf the web, watch videos, or go on social media with both tablets, but essentially, in every aspect, the Tab S9+ feels snappier and more responsive. Even just navigating around the UI, opening and closing apps, you can notice a difference. And I would expect it to continue to perform better for longer. Now, power users who perform more demanding tasks, like photo and video editing, should definitely opt for the more capable Tab S9+. But always keep in mind what you plan on doing so that you don't overpay for performance that you don't need. Now, as far as OS and security updates, Samsung promises four years of OS updates and five years of security updates, which is nice. And again, keep in mind the difference in performance if you plan on keeping your tablet for a while. In terms of battery life, both tablets have a 10,090 milliampere-hour battery, but Samsung rates the FE+ model at 20 hours versus 16 hours on the Tab S9+. Now that I have the entire Tab S9 and FE lineup, I'm finishing the edit of my battery test. So go ahead and subscribe to be notified when it's published. Now, both Tablets offer 45 watts Super Fast Charging, which gets you to 100% in about 90 minutes, but neither tablet ships with a charging adapter, so that's something that you'll need to get separately. Now, when we look at the configuration options, the Tab S9+ is available with 256 or 512 gigabytes of internal storage, and both models come with 12 gigabytes of RAM. The FE+ model comes with 120 gigabytes of storage and eight gigs of RAM, or 256 and 12. Now, of course, more RAM is always better, but your typical FE+ user isn't a power user, so I would only upgrade the RAM if you also need the additional internal storage. Now, overall, it's clear that the Tab S9+ is the more powerful and capable tablet, has a better display, a much more powerful chip with better CPU and GPU performance, more internal storage, better speakers, a better camera system, external display support, and a better S Pen. But at about half the price, the Tab S9 FE+ is a very good value. If you don't need the best performance or the absolute best quality display, you're still getting the same size display, IP68 protection, and a lot of the same features, with better battery life. Now, you should check out this comparison. Hopefully this video is helpful. Click on my face to subscribe. You know what I always say, "Buy it nice or buy it twice." Good luck and see you soon.if you're expecting to hear about the most mind-blowing tablet ever created you might want to click away now yep you heard me right if you're looking for a tablet that's about as exciting as watching paint dry then you've come to the right place today we're talking about the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Fe a device that's about as thrilling as watching grass grow so if you've got better things to do like organizing your sock drawer or alphabetizing your spice rack I totally get it but hey if you're curious about just how unremarkable this tablet really is then stick around we've got plenty of lackluster details to cover so grab your favorite snack because this is going to be one snoozefest of a video let's get into it first things first let's talk about that stunning display the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Fe boasts a gorgeous 10.9 in IPS LCD screen with a smooth 90 HZ refresh rate whether you're streaming your favorite shows or getting work done every image and video pops with vibrant colors and sharp detail plus with a resolution of 14 or 40 x234 pixels you're guaranteed a crisp viewing experience every time under the hood the Galaxy Tab S9 Fe is powered by the exos 1380 chipset ensuring smooth performance no matter what you throw at it with an octacore CPU and Marley g68 MP5 GPU this tablet can handle everything from gaming to multitasking with ease and with options for either 6gb or 8GB of RAM and up to 256 J bars of internal storage you'll have plenty of space for all your apps games and media now let's talk about the cameras while tablets aren't typically known for their photography prod the Galaxy Tab S9 Fe still manages to impress on the back you'll find an 8 megap wideangle camera perfect for capturing those spontaneous moments on the go and on the front there's a 12 megap ultrawide camera ideal for video calls and selfies while it may not rival the cameras on Flagship smartphones it's still more than capable for rase for everyday use when it comes to battery life the Galaxy Tab s9f is doesn't disappoint with its massive 8,000 MERS battery you can enjoy hours of uninterrupted use on a single charge and when it's time to juice up the tablet supports 45w wired charging ensuring you spend less time plugged in and More Time On The Go plus with features like Wi-Fi 6 Bluetooth 5.3 and support for 5G connectivity you'll always stay connected no matter where you are last but not least let's talk about the software the Galaxy Tab S9 Fe runs on Android 13 out of the box with an upgrade to Android 14 available down the line and with Samsung's 1 UI 6 overlay you'll enjoy a sleek and intuitive user experience that's optimized for productivity and entertainment so when can you get your hands on the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Fe well it was announced on October 4th 2023 and it hit the shelves on October 16th 2023 with a price tag of around $530 with its impressive features and affordable price point it's definitely worth considering if you're in the market for a new tablet well folks there you have it the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Fe a tablet that's about as thrilling as watching paint dry on a rainy day if you've made it to the end of this video congratulations you've officially survived the most mind-numbing tech review on the internet but hey before you click away to something infinitely more interesting don't forget to hit that dislike button and unsubscribe because let's face it if you're still here you're probably questioning All Your Life Choices up to this point thanks for tuning in to this absolute snoozefest of a video n