okay so I've made a short on this and I've made videos about these Monster tablets in the past and every single time people get really into them and I'm really into them but the question that always keeps coming up every time is are these actually iPad Killers like is an iPad killer a real thing so let's talk about it this is the newest highest end Android Tablet from Samsung the Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra and it's even more ridiculous than the previous year's already crazy Ultra and I love it so I've already made a video on the tab S7 plus and then last year the tab S8 Ultra if you haven't already seen that I'll link it below that was last year's version and so now just like the rest of Samsung's recent announcements this new one mostly looks the same as last year's version but all the changes they've made are in the same direction just making it even more capable so you've got this gigantic 14.6 inch tablet that I mean it feels like I'm holding a small TV in my hands it somehow also razor thin with a huge battery inside and it actually doesn't snap in half despite looking like it probably should be susceptible to that but hey watch The X video for yourself if you don't believe me it survives better than a lot of other devices have this year though a new Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy inside plus a new Vapor chamber cooling system under the hood so there's going to be an even higher ceiling for performance for everything it's already good at we've seen this thing do multitasking well for years and be quick to scroll around and open and close apps with normal usage and now it'll do better at gaming and video editing and potentially also last a bit longer on that same 11 200 milliamp hour battery that's bigger than any battery that's ever been in an iPad this year the quad speaker setup is also now made up of 20 larger speakers which is a pretty big jump and I'm not ready to call these the best sounding speakers in any tablet quite yet that's still that goes to the iPad Pro still but these sure do get really loud with very little Distortion and you can flip on Dolby Atmos audio if you want some pretty impressive surround sound effects for music or videos or games and then this entire tablet is now ip68 water and dust resistant for the first time which means it's safe to not just splash it with water but literally completely submerge the whole thing underwater and it'll be totally fine which is crazy I don't know any situation where you would end up with a tablet underwater maybe you're recklessly watching Netflix next to a pool or something and then you drop it in I don't know that but if you did it will still be fine but then on top of that this S Pen also comes in the Box again and this thing also now has an ip68 rating of its own and it also now supports bi-directional charging but not the bi-directional charging you're probably thinking of when you can accept charge from the tablet but also charge other things no I just mean whatever Direction the pen faces when you magnetize it to the back of the tablet it will work and charge perfectly fine which is better than last year what I'm surprised doesn't come in the box is any charging brick I mean for a tablet that does everything this thing is actually capable of 45 watt charging which is really solid but the only way to get that is to buy a charger something like this anchor Prime desktop charger which I would totally get over any Samsung first party charger because it's gallium nitride it's smaller and then it also has multi-port charging up to 240 Watts Max output so you could literally charge a laptop full speed and the tablet full speed at the same time but then of course they also make a really convenient battery Bank option so this this is the anchor Prime 250 watt battery bank with two USBC ports and one USB a port it has a built-in inductive wireless charging pad so that can charge the battery Bank up to 100 watts and then there's an app connected to it that lets you configure the display and optimize charging or even play a sound to find it it's way more advanced than any charger that's ever come in any Samsung bucks so shout out to anchor for sponsoring this video and I'll put a link in the description for you to check this one out right below that like button but the point is I mean you've seen all the specs now they're all huge numbers it's a 14 and a half inch screen in my hands it's 120 hertz it's an 11 200 milliamp hour battery it's quad speakers it's the minimum 12 gigs of RAM it's a terabyte of internal storage with up to another terabyte of micro SD card storage all these numbers are great but it's actually using this tablet and actually holding it it's it's hard to describe it to you but it's even more hilariously fun so I'm personally partial to like media idea consumption on devices like this like I would just want to watch YouTube videos on a gigantic screen take them with me download them offline watch them on flights with my free time like it's already amazing for that and honestly I think that's what most people do on tablets a lot of the time but of course for all the additional stuff that tablet power users are going to be doing there is just so much more that this thing is capable of basically it's at the Forefront of tablets there's all of Samsung's multi-window multitasking features and pop-up windows on that 16x10 aspect ratio display all of the stylus features which if you want to use a stylus on a tablet it feels like Samsung and Apple are really the only ones taking it seriously but you know I'm using it to sign documents every once in a while but there are some people whose entire workflows go through this thing and then you can't forget about decks there's a whole clever keyboard folio case that I didn't even have here for this one but I had it for the S8 Ultra and that adds a whole nother Dimension and Dex mode has been super used useful while giving you that desktop experience with independent windows and you can plug it into an even larger display if you want to it's more powerful than anything Apple has even tried to do on the iPad and all of that isn't even mentioning that this is probably the biggest camera viewfinder anyone has ever used Plus on the front that little Notch up there I've mentioned this before but there's two selfie cameras a front-facing normal camera and an ultra wide that can do auto framing in videos or in video calls similar to what Apple calls Center Stage except these cameras are actually in the right place on the long side of the tablet so all that being said can this be an iPad killer that's the question we keep asking and it's a good it's a real question like this is clearly competing against the iPad Pro the biggest baddest iPad Pro but it's going to have a lot of things a lot of features a lot of numbers to one-up the iPad Pro right it's got a bigger screen it's got bigger speakers it's got external expandable storage it's got the fingerprint reader that the iPad Pro doesn't have and all of that costs a hundred dollars more than the equivalent iPad Pro this reminds me of the conversation we've had about Sony phones like in the world of Android phones Sony is out here making incredibly well-equipped super high-end phones with a ton of Enthusiast features and expandable memory and manual controls that the competition like just straight up doesn't offer and that's only really at the expense of a little bit of automatic mode usability and price like they just they're expensive they cost more and while it's really easy to point out all the obvious benefits and advantages to all these extra features and these cool things that it does it turns out that the number of people who will actually take advantage of these features is Tiny and I mean they're everywhere on YouTube but when it comes to actually voting with their wallets most people end up just going with the sort of more standard one and I feel like there is a similar phenomenon Happening Here for whatever reason videos about these tablets do numbers they're they're going crazy like people love to see these on video and I like talking about them but then when it comes to actually buying them people uh the the ecosystem effect is way stronger than any uh YouTube comments would suggest people love flocking to the iPad for iMessage and FaceTime and all these other things but to keep it even more simple I like I have this analogy that I really like even better people like bigger screens as long as it doesn't sacrifice too much in the other areas of the device so take the MacBook Air for example that 13-inch MacBook Air was one of the best selling laptops for years it was Apple's number one best-selling laptop for a long time and people wanted a bigger screen but the only way that they could get a bigger screen and still buy an Apple product was to move all the way up to the 16-inch MacBook Pro which was just dramatically more expensive I mean it was Overkill most people did not need that much computer and so people would actually start to drift away and go buy a different slightly bigger screened laptop from some other company so much so that Apple finally this year decided to introduce a larger 15-inch MacBook Air and it turned out that's exactly what people wanted they just want the bigger screen on the other end of this apple tried introducing a mini iPhone for two whole years which you would think is a brilliant idea if you only read YouTube comments but again it turns out most people want the bigger screen and so that ended up not selling enough it got discontinued and today we have a plus phone instead so this is a bigger screen tablet than the iPad Pro which is why it's so amazing and impressive to hold and look at but it's also a very different tablet from the iPad Pro it's 100 bucks more but it's an Android tablet it has a whole different feature set and for a lot of people that's too much sacrifice and a lot of people will continue to just get iPads but for those who are not looped into the ecosystem and who don't depend on these features this is a hell of a tablet thanks for watching catch you in the next one peaceAre you desperate to buy a tablet with a budget of 3 to 4 million? Yes, one of the options that needs to be relayed is the Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 Plus tablet which will be released in Indonesia in October 2023 with the Galaxy Tab A9. This could be an option for children and adults. Samsung The Galaxy Tab A9 Plus has experienced many improvements compared to its predecessor, improvements such as support for connectivity 5 and also Dex mod which makes the Mul testing experience even more fun and here are the advantages and disadvantages of the Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 Plus which has been done by the Samsung Galaxy Tab [Music] mirango gadget team The A9 Plus doesn't have IP 68 like the Galaxy Tab S9FE series, which is normal considering that the segments it targets are different, but there are three things that make me like the body design on this tablet. The first is the simplicity. The back of the body looks simple without any strange accents. It's strange except for the straight vertical lines on the back cover of the tablet. These lines separate the area made of aluminum and the area made of polycarbonate. The second thing I like about the finish on the back cover of the Galaxy Tab A9 Plus is that it uses a black finish so fingerprints don't stick easily that way. The appearance of this tablet is relatively cleaner because it doesn't look dirty. There are two color variants available, namely Grapid and Navi, both of which use a back cover with a matte finish. The three dimensions of the Galaxy Tab A9 Plus are still okay for a tablet with an 11 inch screen, the thickness is only 6.9 mm with a weight of under 500 GR, to be precise 480 GR for the wi-fi variant and 491 GR for the 5g [Music] variant . The Galaxy Tab A9 Plus has a wider screen than the Galaxy Tab A9. This tablet has an 11 inch 2.3 inch screen. Wider than the Galaxy Tab A9, the panel used is a PLS LCD with full HD resolution plus the color display is not as bright as AMOLED, a number of reviewers are satisfied with the quality of this tablet's screen display. Another specification for the Galaxy Tab A9 Plus screen is support for a touch refresh rate of 90 horz. up to 10 fingers, L1 wdefine certification and also an aspect ratio of 16 Bing. The 10 speakers on the Galaxy Tab A9 plus have a studio configuration with four stereo speakers . also includes Dolp Atmos technology for the Galaxy Tab A9 Plus speakers, the Galaxy T A9 Plus is powered by a Snapdragon 695 chipset or SoC from the Alcom Snapron 95 which has faster performance than the Unioc Tiger T618 which is installed on the Galaxy Tab A8 with each Dragon 695. The Galaxy Tab A9 Plus also has The title of being the first Galaxy A series tablet to support 5G connectivity, this SOC is quite modern because it is made with a 6 nanom manufacturing process, in which there are 8 processor cores, 2 of which use a Corortex A78 micro-architector with a speed of 2.2 GHz. The GPU used is Adreno 619. with a frequency of 950 mhz, there are two memory variants offered by Samsung for the Galaxy Tab A9 plus the first variant is 4/64 GB which supports Wii connectivity and the 8/18 GB variant which has connectivity support. The first variant is suitable for light use for parents who want to give a tablet as a gift. children can choose this variant. However, the 8/128 GB RAM variant will be more attractive for advanced users because the larger RAM also improves the performance of the tablet, especially for multitasking, the storage reaching 128 GB provides a sense of calm when you want to install various applications and save files. So both the 4/64 and 8/128 GB variants are also supported by a micro SD card slot which can be installed with a maximum capacity of 1 TB. There are two cameras embedded in the Galaxy Tab A9 plus, the first is a 5 megapixel front camera and the second is an 8 megapixel rear camera. Both cameras can be used to record video up to 1080p resolution at 30 FPS. The camera is actually not a sector that is highlighted on a tablet because the function of the camera on the tablet is for standard documentation video calls and scanning certain documents, although this is one thing that should be appreciated from This tablet's camera is positioned especially in the front camera position. Yes, the front camera of this tablet occupies the ideal position. The longest bezel layer, aka on the top side, is why it's ideal. The reason is because the tablet will be used more often in landscape [Music] orientation. The Galaxy Tab A9 is quite good to use. multitasking with multi windows capabilities, it can open two applications in split screen and Li applications via floating Windows. This capability is also possessed by the Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 plus, but its multitasking capabilities are much better because it has Samsung Dex support. Yes, the Galaxy Tab 9 plus is a Galaxy Tab tablet. Aseries is the first with Dex mode. Apart from Dex mode, other interesting built-in features in the Galaxy Tab A9 Plus software are the tax bar panel and kids mode. Tax Bar is a shortcut in the bottom area of ​​the screen that will always appear even if you are entering an application. As for the Galaxy Tab A9 Plus comes with Oneui 5.1.1 interface based on Android 13. This tablet is promised to get software support for 4 years. The details are Android upgrade three times and security system updates until the fourth year after [Music] release. The types of physical sensors contained in the Galaxy Tab A9 Plus are fairly complete. it has a compass light proximity accelerometer and also a gyroscope. There are compass and gyroscope sensors so the plus point of this tablet is that the Galaxy Tab A9 Plus is also worthy of being used as a navigation tool because it supports several navigation systems, for example GPS Glonas Void Galileo and SS magic regarding connectivity. The tablet supports WiFi. 5 GHz bluetooth 5.1 but there is no NFC support which is interesting. The Galaxy Tab A9 Plus also comes in a 5G Cellular connectivity variant [Music] Android devices need a minimum of USB 3.0 to be able to support the display . mirroring via wireless via [Music] Wii based on the official Samsung Indonesia page, the sales package for the Galaxy Tab A9 Plus does not come with a charger head. The accessories in this book tablet are the SIM TR ejector and data cable. Only the 25 Watt charger is included only as a bonus and even for those who bought during the promotional period from 27 October to 5 November. Thank you for watching this video. Don't forget to subscribe and activate the bell to get interesting information about the best comms from my gadget.- Okay, so you've got about 300 bucks, you are looking for a new tablet, and you're asking yourself, "Which one is actually better, the Samsung Galaxy Tab A8 or the entry-level iPad 9?" When we look at the design, we immediately see some important differences. The iPad 9 still has the older style design with larger bezels on the top and the bottom and a Home button. In contrast, the Tab 8 has a more modern design with smaller bezels all the way around, which give it a cleaner look. It also means that although both tablets are about the same size, we're getting a larger 10.5-inch display on the Tab A8 versus 10.2 inches on the iPad 9. Now, looking around the edges, both tablets have power buttons, volume controls, and a 3.5 millimeter headphone jack, which I'll come back to later on. For charging and accessories, the iPad 9 still uses the older Lightning port while the Tab A8 uses a USB-C port. Now, personally, I'm stuck with both types of cables because my iPhone, my 3rd Generation AirPods, and even my AirPods Max still use a Lightning cable. And at the same time, my Fold 3, all my Galaxy Tablets, my Buds Live, my Galaxy Book 360, and my MacBooks all use USB-C. So I'm gonna have both types of cables all over the house regardless. So for me, it doesn't really make a difference. But if all your other devices use USB-C, keep in mind that you'll need a dedicated cable for the iPad 9. And in general, USB-C is a more powerful and more versatile port. Now, another advantage of the Tab A8 is that it has a microSD card slot, which allows you to expand the internal storage by up to one terabyte. Now, this is great if you wanna keep a ton of photo and video files on your tablet, but keep in mind that this storage is essentially only used for files and not for apps. It's still a factor because the files that you store on the microSD card aren't taking up any of your internal storage, whereas on the iPad 9, everything including photos and video has to be stored locally. Finally, the Tab A8 has 4 speakers versus only 2 on the iPad 9. And there are some significant implications to this, which I'll cover in the gaming section. All around, when it comes to design, I'm going to give the edge to the Tab A8. And as far as portability, I'm gonna call it a tie. And another important difference is biometric authentication. So the iPad 9 uses Touch ID with the Home button while the Tab A8 uses face recognition with the front-facing camera. I'm not gonna say that one is definitively better than the other because it comes down to how you use your tablet. And ultimately, if I had my choice, I'd want both options like we have with the Tab S7. Now, probably one of the most important aspects of any tablet is the display. There are a few things that we wanna talk about, and let's also talk about how specs impact real-life use. With the Tab A8, we're getting a 10.5-inch display with a resolution of 1920 x 1200, a 16:10 aspect ratio, and a pixel density of 216 pixels per inch. The iPad 9 has a smaller display at 10.2 inches but a higher resolution of 2160 x 1620, an aspect ratio of 4:3, and a higher pixel density of 265 PPI. And the Tab A8 gives you a slightly wider display when you're watching content. And the aspect ratio is closer to the 16:9 that you get from a lot of videos, so there are smaller black bars on the top and the bottom. The iPad 9's higher resolution means that you can fit more information on the display at once. So for example, if you're looking at a webpage, you'll see more of the content without having to scroll. Additionally, the aspect ratio of 4:3 is very useful when you're taking notes or drawing with the Apple Pencil in Portrait Mode because we're getting a wider canvas. The iPad 9 also has a fingerprint-resistant coating, which makes a noticeable difference. It's not that it won't pick up fingerprints at all, but it definitely stays cleaner than the Tab A8. And I find myself not having to clean it as often with a microfiber cloth. Now, both are 60 hertz displays, but there are fundamental differences in the types of display that each tablet has. The iPad 9 does not have a fully laminated display, meaning that there is an air gap. On the Tab A8, the display, the touch layer, and the cover glass are fused into a single display assembly. For things like gaming, surfing the web, using various productivity apps, or watching video, you're unlikely to notice this difference. But in general, I prefer a fully laminated display because the image looks like it's painted right on top of the glass. A fully laminated display is typically also better when you're using a stylus because the tip of the pencil looks like it's touching the content that's being created. Whereas on the iPad 9, you will see a bit of separation. Now, in this particular case, while the iPad 9 is compatible with the 1st Generation Apple Pencil, the Tab A8 isn't compatible at all with Samsung's S Pen. So you can't use the Bluetooth-enabled S Pen that you get with a Tab S7 or S7 Plus or even the basic S Pen that you get with a Tab S7 FE. Now, both displays work just fine for everything that I do from watching content to playing games, surfing the web, and using various apps. If the larger black bars when watching video are an issue for you, then the Tab A8 is a better fit. Personally, they don't bother me at all. And for everyday use, I prefer the sharper and higher resolution display on the iPad 9, as well as the fingerprint-resistant coating, the 4:3 aspect ratio, and the Apple Pencil compatibility for note-taking, sketching, and for marking up and signing documents. If you're looking for more of a laptop-like experience, then you may wanna pick up a keyboard case. Now, the iPad 9 has a ton of excellent options from Apple and from third-party providers. I have not been able to find a dedicated keyboard case from Samsung for the Tab A8, but I did find this other option that has a removable keyboard. And I'll share a link in the description. It's actually kind of neat because you can use the same case with and without the keyboard. When we look at processing power, we've got benchmarks, and then we have real-life use. For single-core performance, the Tab A8 score 364 versus 1330 on the iPad 9. And for multi-core performance, we're looking at 1250 versus 3376. So we're getting substantially better performance on the iPad 9 for pretty much any type of task. But the real question is, does this have any kind of real-life implications for the majority of users? And in this case, the answer is a resounding yes. Like whether you're opening and closing apps, switching between opened apps or between opened tabs in your browser, or just navigating around the UI, the iPad 9 is extremely responsive. In comparison, the Tab A8 feels sluggish, laggy, and it feels underpowered for a current device. Now, that's not to say that you can't perform the same tasks, it's just that the user experience is not as smooth. And sometimes you're not sure if the Tab A8 is lagging or if a tap or a swipe wasn't registered. I'll get to how this impacts the gaming experience in just a moment. But first, let's talk about the camera and speakers. Now, this is another area where it's a split decision. Looking at the rear-facing cameras, both are eight megapixels, but the iPad 9 camera is simply better. It's more color accurate. It has better dynamic range. And it's more versatile in terms of features, frame rates, and image stabilization. I very rarely use the rear-facing cameras on my tablets because the ones on my phones are so much better. So for me, the more important camera on a tablet is the front-facing one, which I use for video calls. Again, the iPad 9 comes out ahead with a 12 megapixel camera versus 5 megapixels on the Tab A8. It's also an Ultra Wide camera with Center Stage, which is a feature that uses artificial intelligence to identify then track a subject as it moves through the frame. It can then crop the image to give the impression that the camera is following the subject. So in both cases, if you're looking for the better camera system, that's gonna be the iPad 9. When we get to the speakers, things shift in favor of the Tab A8. The iPad 9 only has speakers on the bottom. So when you're holding it in Landscape Mode, the audio only comes out to one side. It actually does a pretty good job at projecting the sound, but it can't compete with the Tab A8. The four-speaker Dolby Atmos system has better audio quality. It offers more immersive and fuller stereo sound. And it's better for games, where you need to detect which direction footsteps or other sounds come from. Before we get to battery life and gaming, let's talk about multitasking apps and operating system support. So for multitasking, I'm going to give the edge to the iPad 9. Both tablets have similar features, but again, the iPad 9 feels more responsive. And working with multiple apps feels seamless. The iPad 9 can also be used as an additional display for your Mac, your iMac, or your MacBook with a feature called Sidecar. Now, Samsung has a similar feature called Second Screen, but it's not available on the Tab A8. Now, looking at the app selections, both the Google Play Store and the Apple App Store are full of choices for pretty much everything you wanna do. There are some specific popular creative apps like LumaFusion, Procreate and Affinity Photo that are only available on the iPad. LumaFusion did announce that they'll be releasing an Android version, so that's good news. As far as operating system support, Samsung promises three generations of OS updates. Now in contrast, Apple provides much longer support. And just as an example, my iPad Air 2, which I got eight years ago, is still supported by iPadOS 15. And moving on to battery life, both tablets have pretty good performance. And for the most part, I can get through an entire day with both. Of course, I can't sit down and play eight hours straight of "PUBG" without having to recharge either one of them. But for the most part, for what I do every day, I get through a full day. The iPad 9 probably does get the edge here, and I'm currently working on a more detailed test. When it comes to gaming, I'm able to play all of my games on both tablets. Less-demanding games are going to pretty much play on any current tablet, so that's not really an issue. But even more demanding games like "PUBG" and "COD Mobile" ran smoothly on both. For "PUBG," on the Tab A8, I was able to set graphics to smooth or balanced, and then the frame rate to ultra. I could also set the graphics to HD, and then the frame rate to high. With the iPad 9, I could go all the way up to 90 frames per second with the graphic set to smooth. I could go up to extreme frame rate with balanced graphics or all the way up to ultra HD with frame rate set to ultra. Now, switching to "COD Mobile," the Tab A8 tops out at medium graphic quality and high frame rate while the iPad 9 can go to very high graphic quality and max frame rate or very high graphic quality and very high frame rate. So in both games, the iPad 9 has the better options. Now, we talked a little bit about the audio early on in the video. But if you plan on using your speakers to play games where you need directional sound, the Tab A8 will perform better. Now, both tablets have a 3.5 millimeter headphone jack, which gives you the option of using a wired gaming headset for perfect lag-free audio. It also means that you can charge the tablet and use the wired headset at the same time without needing any type of adapter or a splitter. Both tablets also worked great with an Xbox controller and Xbox Game Pass. And I was able to play all of my favorite games as long as I had a fast and stable internet connection. I'm going to give the slight edge to the iPad 9 because in my opinion, it has a better display, and I had less issues with the controller disconnecting. Now, I wanna talk about the different configurations and also address resale value. I'll be using the prices from the Samsung and Apple Stores, but you can usually find better prices by using the links in the description. The Tab A8 is available with 32 gigabytes of storage and 3 gigs of RAM for 230 bucks, then 64 gigabytes for $280, and 128 gigabytes of storage for $330. And both of those models come with four gigabytes of RAM. The iPad 9 comes with either 64 gigabytes for 329 or 256 for 459. And both of them come with three gigabytes of RAM. So both tablets are also available on cellular models. And remember that the Tab A8 has a microSD card slot. It can be used to expand the internal storage and that this storage will be used for files and not for apps. Now, one thing to keep in mind, is that at least in the US, the iPads hold their resale value for longer. And at the same time, Samsung has some really great trade-in options. And I'd love to know what the situation is where you live. So which one of these tablets is a better option for you? So the Tab A8 starts at $230 for 32 gigabytes of internal storage. Although I would really only recommend that to someone who's just using it to stream content, to surf the web, work with some basic apps, and then play a few small games. If we're comparing the $330 models, then the Tab A8 comes with 120 gigs of internal storage, plus the microSD card slot, which can expand the internal storage by up to one terabyte. It has a more modern design, facial recognition, a nice display, and a better speaker system. The iPad 9 comes with 64 gigabytes of internal storage. It can be upgraded to 256 for an additional $130, has a better display, Touch ID, Apple Pencil support, a better camera system. It's noticeably more powerful and more responsive, and it has better graphic performance for gaming. Now, you should see how the iPad 9 compares with the Galaxy Tab S7 FE. Hopefully, this video was helpful. Click on my face to subscribe. You know what I always say, buy it nice or buy it twice. Good luck and see you soon.Hello, meet the Galaxy Tab A9 Plus 5g from Samsung. This model focuses on Entertainment With a large screen size of 11 inches, full HD Plus resolution, supports Refresh Rate at 90 hz, so the user experience is definitely quite good. It will be loading the PDF file to view, opening the Browser and including usage. Social Network, watch movies, watch various series Can be used in many ways. Anyone who If you're looking for a tablet with a big, smooth screen and can insert a SIM card and use 5G, I recommend this model. Because the price is not as expensive as you think. Can be used both indoors and outdoors, meaning the screen is quite bright. Maximum brightness up to 570 nits and has a front camera. For video recordings including selfies as well. Completely connected, it will be Type C, 3.5 headphones and 4 speakers together, very loud. Completely like a mobile phone for the body. This material is all metal. Weight It's light and the color is durable. As you can see, it's simple and good. The main camera is 8 megapixels. Sufficient photography, photocopying, document scanning Yes, anyone who watches Netflix can watch it in l1 format, so it supports full hd. You can watch it on a big screen like this and because it has qu speakers, which is 4 speakers. When we turn on the speakers, it's the series. You can get it like this. It's loud and has a lot of dimensions compared to Mobile phone or tablet speakers that have only 2 speakers is also one of the selling points of the Galaxy Tab A9 Plus 5g, which is sound like this. So in terms of games, there is no problem. Using the Snap Dragon 6955 G, I can play. Casually, like ROV, you can play the full 60 minutes on a large screen. And it's full of things like this, which is that it can be played. Casual, like other games, maybe. Can be adjusted in the middle for the game Triple [Music] [Music] [Applause] a What is interesting is that it supports Samsung Dex on the Galaxy Tab A9 Plus 5g. Samsung Dex is PC Mode that can use applications similar to a PC. Especially when opening applications, you can run multitask apps in the same way as on a PC. That is, we open Multi Windows as overlapping windows 1 2 3 4, whatever, like games, Netflix, YouTube Maps, documents. Everything can be opened. Yes, it is a model that can do multitasking quite well because it is on a large screen. This can definitely be used better than a mobile phone, with the benefit of a big screen. You can use many apps on your tablet better. Like Maps, you can see details. Can see more information than a mobile phone. Normally, just like using a website or reading a PDF, you can use it. It works well because the screen is big. More than many mobile phones can display information. You can get more things without having to focus. I mean, many adults will like it because they don't. You can focus without wearing glasses. Read any type of text well on a tablet. And it's light in weight. This one is good because that we can use it while holding and reading like As for the camera, it comes with an 8 megapixel main camera. I have to say first that it's on a tablet. Used for general modeling, styling, and event photography. document or something like this, so in The matter of various features or options may not be very noticeable, which can be taken in general. Yes, it can take photos in the same area, it can record videos in full HD, and there are other modes, including hyperlapse mode as well. The various uses are like this for the Galaxy Tab A9 Plus 5g. Charge 1 time and use it for a full day comfortably with an 11-inch screen. Definitely a movie and music listener. You definitely won't be disappointed when playing games with the Ship Snapdragon 695 Ram 8 GB. It's strong, fast, comfortable to use, and also supports 5g. This one doesn't support the S Pen, but you can use a general stylus to write and take notes. on the screen as usual. The price is 19,990 baht for the Ram 8 GB model, 128 GB capacity, supports 5g, and the WiFi Only model is 8,990 baht. In addition, he also has Promotion with a 40% discount on Case W Cover for both the Galaxy Tab A9 and the Galaxy Tab A9 Plus, all models, until December 31st. It's said to be organized for a long time.- Okay, so you're thinking of buying a Galaxy Tab S9 series tablet and you realize that there are three great options, but Samsung actually did something this year to make the decision even harder. So let's talk about all the important differences. This way you can have all the information that you need to choose the right Tab S9 series tablet for you. Starting out, we have the Tab S9 which got the most significant changes in this year's lineup. It retails for 799, and right now, using the links in the description, you can actually double the storage and get 50% more RAM for the same price, but we'll come back to that later. So over the past few years, Samsung didn't give the best displays to the smallest versions, like the Tab S7 and the Tab S8. It was still a very nice display, but it was an LCD display. Now, this year, the Tab S9 got the same upgrade as its two bigger siblings, and now it's sporting an amazing dynamic AMOLED 2X display. It's an 11-inch 120 hertz display with a resolution of 1,600 by 2,560, a 16 by 10 aspect ratio, and 274 pixels per inch. The display gives you the choice between a static 60 hertz or adaptive 120 hertz where the tablet changes in real time based on what you're doing. And this way you can save on battery life when you're looking at static content and you can get smooth and responsive animations when you're interacting with a UI, playing games, or doing anything else where a faster refresh rate offers the optimal user experience. This display has noticeably darker black levels than the previous models. It has better color accuracy, better contrast, and reduced blue light emission. The Tab S9 comes in graphite or beige. And looking around the edges, we see four speaker grills with four AKG-tuned speakers. In terms of audio quality, they're quite good for this size tablet and they work well for watching content and for games that don't require you to quickly identify where sounds are coming from. Obviously, for those types of games, you're better off using headsets, and there's a speaker test of all three tablets later on in this video when I talk about the Tab S9 Ultra. Now back to the Tab S9, we're getting a USB-C for charging and connecting accessories, and there's a micro SD cart slot which allows you to expand the internal storage by up to one terabyte. Now, speaking of accessories, the Tab S9 comes with a Bluetooth-enabled S Pen. We're getting lower latency than last year's model, and it has bidirectional charging, so it doesn't matter which way you snap it to the back. Both the tablet and the S Pen have an IP68 rating, so you're getting protection from water and dust. And the Tab S9 is compatible with two keyboard cases from Samsung, the Book Cover Keyboard and the Book Cover Keyboard Slim. For biometric authentication, we got another upgrade from last year, and now we've got an outstanding under display fingerprint sensor to go along with facial recognition. This year, we also got a really impressive upgrade in performance with the new Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip, which has better single core performance in the last year's model and even greater improvement in multi-core and GPU performance. And the new Qualcomm chip also helps improve battery life. So on top of getting a larger battery this year at 8,400 milliampere-hour versus 8,000, we're also getting a more efficient chip. And I'm finishing up a detailed battery drain test of all three models. I'll also put the Tab S8 series test in the description if you want to check out those results. The Tab S9 gives us outstanding multitasking capabilities with three tiled apps at the same time, popup windows, and then of course DeX. If you're not familiar with it, DeX essentially reboots the tablet and gives you an operating system that's very similar to a desktop OS. You're getting a task bar, a desktop with icons, multiple windows. You can snap windows, and you can use a keyboard case to transform your tablet into more of a laptop replacement. You can also connect an external display keyboard and mouse and then run a super capable dual display setup. Now, one other great option is to use the Tab S9 as an additional display for your laptop or desktop with Samsung's Second Screen. This is a super handy feature when you travel. For cameras, we're getting a 13-megapixel front-facing camera and a 13-megapixel rear-facing camera. And for connectivity, we're getting Wi-Fi 6E compatibility just like with the two larger models. Looking at the configuration options, the 128-gigabyte model comes with eight gigs of RAM, and the 256-gigabyte model comes with 12 gigs of RAM. And remember that you can use the links in the description to get that upgrade for free, which is something that I would highly recommend doing. Ultimately, this is an extremely powerful and capable tablet at this price point. It's also a great option for someone who values portability, for users who prefer this size for gaming, or for users with smaller hands who find a smaller tablet easier to handle. Moving onto the Tab S9+, which starts out at $999. We're essentially getting the same design, but in a larger form factor. We're now getting the same type of display, dynamic AMOLED 2X, but it's larger at 12.4 inches. We're getting a higher resolution at 1,752 by 2,800, the same aspect ratio of 16 by 10, and a slightly lower pixel density, but not something that's really noticeable in terms of sharpness. Now, watching content on this display is fantastic. The image quality is outstanding. And since the aspect ratio is so close to the image that's being displayed, they're very small black bars at the top and the bottom. Also, if you fill to zoom, you're getting a very minor crop and then the image covers the entire display and looks great. Again, we're getting four AKG-tuned speakers, but these are warmer and fuller than the ones on the Tab S9. We're getting the same USB-C 3.2 ports, same Bluetooth 5.3, and Wi-Fi 6E compatibility, but a larger battery than the Tab S9 at 10,090 milliampere-hour. And like all three tablets, we're getting fast wire charging at 45 watts. Now, keep in mind that none of these tablets come with a charger, and I'll put some links in the description to a few of my favorites. We have the same options for biometric authentication with an under-display fingerprint sensor and facial recognition. We're getting the same S Pen with the same low latency, and the same IP68 protection for the S Pen and the tablet. Now, even though we have the same multitasking features, the larger display on the Tab S9+ gives the edge over the smaller Tab S9, and that's true for multiple tiled apps, for DeX, and when we're using it as an external display. When it comes to gaming, this model might be the sweet spot in terms of size. You're getting a larger display, but it's not too big, so it's great for handheld games and when you wanna connect to controller, and then stream some games using the Xbox Game Pass app. It has the same 13-megapixel front-facing camera as the Tab S9. But in addition to the 13-megapixel rear-facing camera, it also has an eight-megapixel ultra wide. We're getting the same powerful Qualcomm Snapdragon chip, but the Tab S9+ starts with 256 gigabytes and 12 gigs if RAM. And again, right now you can double the storage and get the 512 gigabyte model for the same price. The Tab S9+ is right there in the middle. It's giving you a noticeably larger display, a slightly better camera module, better speakers, a larger battery, and more storage. All right, so now we move on to the Tab S9 Ultra, which starts out at $1,199. It's the biggest tablet that Samsung makes, and it's what some people would say is inarguably the best display on any tablet. Now, whether you agree or not, if you've had a chance to use this tablet in real life, you have to admit that this display is spectacular. It's massive at 14.6 inches, still dynamic AMOLED 2X, 120 hertz. It has the highest resolution at 1,848 by 2,960 the same 16 by 10 aspect ratio, and a pixel density of 239. Now, surprisingly, the Tab S9 Ultra is the thinnest of all three tablets. It's not by a lot, but when you couple the larger size with the thinnest tablet, the user experience is that of using some sort of a futuristic display. I'll admit that it's probably not for everyone. It's definitely the least portable option, although, honestly, for me, I always carry it in my backpack. So it doesn't really impact me in that context, but there is one specific area where it's actually too big, and I'll get to that in just a minute. And we're getting all the same biometric features the same connectivity, same IP68 rating, but we do see another change when it comes to the camera module. So we have the 13-megapixel wide and the eight-megapixel ultra wide that we saw on the Tab S9+ on the back of the tablet. But on the front we're now getting two 13-megapixel cameras with a wide and an ultra wide. We're also getting a small notch which is something that I feel like I have to address. So I've heard both sides of the argument and my perspective in short is that it just doesn't matter. The display is so big and the notch is like this big. It's so tiny that I never really notice it. Now, of course, if it's something that you're gonna be fixated on, then it's not really the tablet for you and you should probably go with something like the Tab S9+. But it's just never really been an issue or in the way for any of the ways that I use this tablet. The Tab S9 Ultra is right now my favorite tablet to watch content on. The fact that I can get an image to be this big, this close to me is super impressive. We're also getting the best audio quality using the built-in speakers. And here's a quick sample from all three tablets. ("On & On") ♪ Hold me close 'til I get up ♪ ♪ Time is barely on our side ♪ ♪ I don't wanna waste what's left ♪ ♪ The storms we chase are leading us ♪ ♪ And love is all we'll ever trust, yeah ♪ ♪ No, I don't wanna waste what's left ♪ ♪ And on and on we'll go ♪ ♪ Through the wastelands, through the highways ♪ ♪ 'Til my shadow turns to sun rays ♪ ♪ And on and on we'll go ♪ ♪ Through the wastelands, through the highways ♪ ♪ And on and on we'll go ♪ - We're getting the largest battery of all three at 11,200 milliampere-hours, but of course it has to power the largest display, so I'm super excited to show you my battery test, and make sure that you're subscribed so you don't miss out. For multitasking DeX and second screen, this is the best option because it's such a useful size and you can have so much content on it and you can really improve your productivity. Now, the one area where this tablet was too big for me was when I'm playing "PUBG" and holding it in the air. It just feels cumbersome and my hands get pretty tired after a couple games. Now, if you play with a tablet flat on the desk or on a pillow, then that's another completely different story. And in that case, I love having the larger display because it's easier to see smaller movements. It's definitely the best tablet to use with a controller because it's like having a super light and portable TV with you anywhere you go. For configuration options, it starts out with 256 gigabytes of internal storage and 12 gigs of RAM. And again, you can double the storage right now for the same price. And if you go to one terabyte, you also get bumped up to 16 gigabytes of RAM. If you want the biggest tablet with the biggest display for watching content, if you multitask, use your tablet as a laptop replacement with DeX, or use it for second screen, and if you want the largest gaming display Samsung offers in a tablet, get yourself a Tab S9 Ultra. It's probably my favorite tablet in the lineup. And this display just puts a smile on my face every time I use it. And whenever a new person sees me using it for the first time, it's super obvious that there is something very special about this tablet. Now you should check out this comparison. Hopefully this video is helpful. Click on my face to subscribe. You know what I always say, buy it nice or buy it twice. Good luck and see you soon.- A few days ago, I compared the Tab S9+ to the 11 inch iPad Pro, but I got a few comments saying that a better comparison would be with a 12.9 inch model because for one, they're closer in size. And while that's true there are some things that are a little confusing and thank you to Best buy for sponsoring a portion of this video. So back to this size, when you have these tablets side by side in portrait mode you can see that they're pretty much the same height but the iPad is noticeably wider. It's also a little bit thicker and heavier, but not really something that would make a meaningful difference in terms of portability. These are both premium flagship tablets. So as you would expect, the build quality is excellent and I haven't had any type of issues with bending. I do like the fact that both the Tab S9+ and the S Pen, which we'll talk about in just a minute, both have an IP68 rating. So I know I'm getting protection from water and dust. Looking at the overall design, there's lots of similarities. So we're getting rounded corners, squared off edges and there are four speakers so we're getting very good sound at least for tablets. Now, typically I find it pretty easy to pick a winner but this was a really close call. So here's a sound test and let me know which one you think sounds better. (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) Now continuing around the edges, both tablets have USB-C ports for charging and connecting accessories. The one on the Tab S9+ is 3.2, and the one on the iPad Pro is a more powerful Thunderbolt four port which has faster transfer speeds. This isn't going to matter to the majority of users but if you're a creator or if you're a photographer or if you're anyone who regularly transfers a lot of files to and from the tablet, you'll definitely appreciate having the faster transfer speeds on the iPad Pro. Now, an advantage of the Tab S9+ is that it has a micro SD card slot, so I can relatively inexpensively expand the internal storage by up to one terabyte. It also means that I have the flexibility of not getting all the storage I need right away if I can't afford it. I can just buy the tablet now and then add storage when my budget allows for it. And I can use the micro SD storage for files, for photos, for videos, and for most apps. We see some more separation when we look at biometric authentication where the iPad uses Face ID and the Tab S9 plus offers a great under display fingerprint sensor and then a less secure face recognition option. All three choices work well for me so it's really gonna come down to whether you want the more secure facial biometric with the iPad or the versatility of multiple options with a Tab S9+. Now let's get to one of the most important features in a tablet. The display. So the Tab S9+ has a 12.4 inch dynamic AMOLED 2X display with a resolution of 1752 by 2,800, a 16:10 aspect ratio, 120 Hertz adaptive refresh rate and 266 pixels per inch. The iPad Pro has a larger 12.9 inch liquid retina XDR display with a high resolution of 2048 by 2732, an aspect ratio of 4:3, 120 Hertz adaptive refresh rate and a pixel density of 265 pixels per inch. So both displays are great. Let's just get that out of the way. You're not gonna get either one of these and think that they're terrible displays like these are the best displays that Apple and Samsung have to offer in a tablet. And of course, if you wanna see this iPad compared with a larger Tab S9 Ultra I'll link to that video at the end of this one. Now, the way I would choose between these two is based on what you plan on doing. If you're watching content you're getting essentially the same size image with both devices with just larger black bars on the iPad Pro. And that's not really something that bothers me because I'm not looking at the part of the screen that's black. Another thing to think about is that the iPad Pro is brighter for both SDR and HDR content which doesn't really matter if you're indoors, but if you have to deal with reflections or if you work outside it's always nice to have that additional brightness. Now, when you hold each tablet in portrait mode you'll be able to see more content on the iPad without having to scroll. And actually the same is true even in landscape mode. In terms of image quality, both are exceptional like really what both companies did here is very impressive. And the one advantage that I'm gonna give Samsung is that you can get this same type of display on the smaller Tab S9 or the larger Tab S9 Ultra. And with Apple, you can only get this display on the 12.9 inch model. But again, back to these two specific displays you really can't go wrong. And speaking of places where you can't go wrong if you're looking for some great deals on tech, check out today's sponsored Best Buy and their top deals. They have some amazing daily and weekly top deals. Best Buy has great prices and even a price match guarantee. But with the holidays right around the corner you can actually get the best deals on the hottest products by downloading the Best Buy app. You can also get first look at Best Buy drops which means you'll be getting better savings on hot or limited inventory products. And my Best Buy members get exclusive offers on thousands of products, like check out this 65 inch 8K mini LED TV. It's on sale for $2,100 but my Best Buy members get an additional 700 bucks off. Plus, if you shop in store, you can just have a blue shirt scan your digital member ID from the app and all of your in-store purchases are attached to your My Best Buy account. So if you wanna save some money on a gift or something for yourself make sure that your first check out Best Buy's top deals. And thank you to Best Buy for sponsoring this portion of the video. Now when we talk about this level of tablets another important consideration is the ability to expand functionality by adding a keyboard case and a stylus. There's some really interesting implications here. Starting with keyboard options the iPad Pro is compatible with Apple's larger magic keyboard and also some excellent third party options. The Tab S9+ is compatible with two different versions of the book covered keyboard from Samsung, but keep in mind that you can't use the keyboards from the Tab S7+ or the Tab S8+ because the camera modules are different and they won't fit. And then finally of course, you can use an external Bluetooth keyboard with both tablets. Now, personally, I prefer the feel of the keys on the magic keyboard and the track pad is definitely better. It also has a USB-C pass through so you can charge the iPad while still being able to connect accessories. The Tab S9+ keyboards do a much better job at securing the S Pen so it doesn't fall off when it's in my bag and there's a full row of function keys. Now moving on to the stylus options. The iPad Pro is compatible with the second generation Apple Pencil. It pairs wirelessly. It can be stored and charged on the side of the iPad and it costs 130 bucks. The Tab S9+ comes with a free S Pen, which also pairs wirelessly. It can be stored on the side or the back of the Tab S9+, but it will only charge on the back. Now you're able to assign functions to the button on the S Pen which is similar to Apple's double tap functionality but the S Pen also has several Bluetooth functions so you can use it to take pictures, control media playback and for several other useful tasks. Now, the S Pen doesn't need to be charged in order to write or draw. It's only for the Bluetooth functions whereas the Apple Pencil does need to be charged in order to function at all. Now, realistically, this isn't a very meaningful difference to me because my Apple Pencil is always charging while it's being stored and the battery lasts forever but it's still something that I wanted to mention. Now both stylus options offer very low latency, but the feeling of writing or drawing is actually quite different. The Apple Pencil has a firm tip so it's a little harsher when it hits the glass and it feels like you're writing or drawing on a single sheet of paper that's placed on a hard surface. The S Pen has a softer tip so when it hits the glass, it gives a little. It feels more like you're writing on a full pad of paper where the pages compress as you press down. Now, one isn't objectively better than the other for every use case, and it's really going to come down to which one feels better for you. So hopefully this description was helpful. Another area where we see some important differences is when we look at apps and long-term support. I'm not going to get into iPad OS versus Android. Both operating systems are very powerful and they have their strengths and weaknesses and that really belongs in a separate video. There are lots of apps in the Galaxy Google Play Store and the Apple App Store, so the majority of users are easily going to find what they need. Now, some creative specific apps like Affinity Photo and Procreate are only available for the iPad. So if those are absolutely necessary for your workflow, then go ahead and get the iPad. If you don't need them, then that's not really a deciding factor for you. LumaFusion, which has historically been an iPad only app is now available for Android, which is is great news but another advantage for the iPad is that now you can use Final Cut Pro. Now for taking notes, Notability is only available for iPad but Good Notes has an Android version, and Samsung Notes is actually an outstanding option and it comes included with the Tab S9+. Now overall, I have to give the edge to the iPad Pro because almost every app is optimized for a tablet and with the Tab S9+, a lot of the apps are just stretched out versions of the phone apps. As far as operating system support, Apple has always provided excellent long-term support. And while Samsung now offers four years of OS updates and five years of security updates, Apple still has the advantage here if that's a priority for you. Looking at the camera systems, both tablets have an ultra wide 12 megapixel front facing camera. The iPad Pro record it up to 1080p60. The Tab S9+ can go up to 4K30. And here's a quick sample. Here's a camera on microphone test of the Tab S9+ and the 12.9 inch M2 iPad Pro. This should give you a pretty good idea of the type of image quality that you're going to get and the type of audio quality that you should expect. Now for video calls, I prefer the placement of the camera on the Tab S9+ because it's in the center of the long edge. So I'm always properly framed and it appears as if I'm looking at the person that I'm talking to. On the iPad Pro because the camera is on the short side when I'm watching the screen, the camera is off to my left and then it looks like I'm looking away from the person that I'm talking to. Now moving onto the rear facing camera modules, the Tab S9+ has a 13 megapixel wide and an eight megapixel ultra-wide camera versus a 12 megapixel wide and a 10 megapixel ultra-wide on the iPad Pro. Both tablets have a flash but the iPad Pro also includes a LIDAR scanner which is great for auto focus and low light and for augmented reality apps. Now both tablets also have some excellent multitasking capabilities. With the iPad Pro you can have two apps open side by side, in split view you can have slide over windows and you can have a popup window in the center. The Tab S9+ allows you to have three tiled apps open at the same time. You can resize each window to get the configuration that works best for you and you can still have pop-up windows. Now, both tablets can also be used as a second display for your laptop or desktop. Apple calls this feature sidecar and Samsung calls it second screen. Now, an important advantage of the Tab S9+ and for that matter, the Tab S9 and the Tab S9 Ultra is that you can reboot it in DeX mode which basically gives you a desktop like user interface with a task bar, desktop icons, and floating windows. You can even pair a keyboard, a mouse and an external monitor for an extremely powerful dual display setup. Now, Apple did release stage manager for the iPad Pro, which is an improvement. It means that you can finally connect to an external display without black bars on the left and the right. You can also extend your DeX app to the external display and move apps and windows to it for a true dual display setup. It's great to see that Apple continues to improve the capabilities of the iPad and I love how fluid and seamless multitasking is. I also like the larger display, and with the Tab S9+, you can have more tiled apps open at the same time and it has DeX. So I would consider it the more capable multitasking option but it would ultimately come down to what you prioritize and which ecosystem you're in. Now, as far as configuration options the iPad Pro comes with the M2 chip which is the most powerful chip in any tablet. Every model up to 512 gigabytes of storage comes with eight gigs of RAM. And the one and two terabyte models come with 16 gigs of RAM. The Tab S9+ comes with the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip, and both the 256 and the 512 gigabyte models come with 12 gigs of RAM. So let's quickly look at benchmarks for those of you who are interested. And it's no surprise that the iPad Pro comes out ahead for single core performance and that the gap increases even more for multi-core performance and GPU performance. Now, not everyone is editing 8K video on their tablets so sheer processing power may not be the most important factor for you, but all things being equal having additional headroom in terms of performance just means that the device will continue to work great for your needs as time goes on. And one thing is for sure the Samsung upgrade to the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip improves battery life on this year's Samsung tablets. How much screen on time you actually get from your tablet really depends on what you do. For me, the Tab S9+ has lasted a few hours longer during a typical day of use. And when connected to a high capacity charger the iPad charge in approximately two hours which is about 10 minutes faster than the Tab S9+. Now, I do a lot of gaming on my tablets and I've had a ton of fun playing games on both of these. Now obviously, both chips are extremely capable so basic games aren't gonna be a challenge. But even more demanding games like PUBG, COD Mobile and Genshin Impact run very smoothly on both devices. Playing PUBG, I could go up to 90 frames per second on both tablets with graphics set to smooth or all the way up to ultra HD for graphics and ultra for frame rate. In terms of gaming performance, I'm going to give the edge to the iPad Pro because it has additional headroom in terms of performance and it will continue to perform better for longer as games become more and more demanding. And in terms of handling, they're close enough in terms of width to where handling feels pretty much the same and the Tab S9+ is a little bit lighter, but it's really not a huge difference. When I want to play cloud-based games then I just pair my Xbox controller and then I can play any game that's available with the Xbox Game Pass app. In that context, I'm primarily using the tablet as a display, so I prefer the larger iPad Pro. Now, when we look at pricing we see some extremely important differences. Now, I'm going to use the prices off of the Apple and Samsung stores because they're standardized but you can usually find better prices by using the links in the description. So the iPad Pro starts out at $1,199 and the Tab S9+ starts out at $999. But keep in mind that the iPad Pro starts out with 128 gigabytes of storage versus 256 gigabytes on the Tab S9+. And right now, using the links in the description you can actually get 512 gigabytes on the Tab S9+ for the same price and that's gonna cost you $1,399 on the iPad. If you need a lot of internal storage the iPad Pro goes all the way up to two terabytes. The Tab S9+ maxes out at 512 gigabytes. But again, you can use the micro SD card slot for additional storage. Also, remember that if you want a stylus the S Pen is included with the price of the Tab S9+, and the second generation Apple Pencil will cost you an additional 130 bucks. Now, you should check out this comparison. Click on my face to subscribe. You know what I always say, buy it nice or buy it twice. Good luck and see you soon.- If you look closely, you'll notice that even though the Tab S9+ and the Tab S9 FE+ look very similar, there are some incredibly meaningful differences for both average and power users. Neither of these tablets have the most powerful chip Samsung has put in a mobile device. That honor is currently reserved for the S24 Ultra and the rest of the S24 lineup, with the Snapdragon 8 gen 3 chip. And at the same time, processing power is one meaningful differentiator between these two tablets, along with the display, the speakers, the camera, multitasking, and the stylus. Keep in mind that we have to take price into account because we're looking at $999 for the base Tab S9+ versus 549 for the FE+. And thank you to Best Buy for sponsoring a portion of this video. Now I mentioned multitasking, which might be a little confusing because both tablets run the latest Android and One UI, and that means that you are technically getting all of the latest features, like three-tiled apps, pop-up windows, and then of course, DeX, which is awesome. Essentially, DeX reboots the tablet and gives it an operating system that's very similar to a desktop OS. You're getting a task bar, a desktop with icons, multiple windows, you can snap windows, and you can use a keyboard case to transform your tablet into more of a laptop replacement. But there is one important DeX feature that's only available on the Tab S9+, and that's the ability to connect an external display and run a super capable dual display setup. The FE+ version does not have this feature. You can, however, use either tablet as an additional display for your Windows laptop or desktop with Samsung's Second Screen, and I use this feature both in the office and when I travel. Now looking at the displays, both are 12.4 inches, and have the same aspect ratio of 16 by 10, which makes them great for watching content. But in terms of the actual specs, that's pretty much where the similarities end. The Tab S9+ has a Dynamic AMOLED 2X display, which offers 120 hertz adaptive refresh rate, a resolution of 1752 by 2800, and a pixel density of 266 pixels per inch. The Tab S9 FE+ has an IPS LCD display, which offers a slower 90 hertz adaptive refresh rate, a lower resolution of 1600 by 2560, and a lower pixel density of 243 pixels per inch. In terms of image quality, the FE+ display is very good. And for the price, we're getting terrific image quality for watching video and for playing games. And while we're not getting 120 hertz and the animations and scrolling are not as smooth as they are in the Tab S9+, we are getting 90 hertz, which is a step up from the previous FE model. Now having said that, there's no question that the Dynamic AMOLED 2X display on the flagship model is the superior display. Colors seem to pop off the screen, we're getting outstanding blacks, better contrast, and again, the UI animations and scrolling looks smoother. Overall, I have to give the edge to the Tab S9+, but I don't think that I would pay twice as much just for the display. As far as the overall design, the two tablets are very similar with a full aluminum frame in back. They have the same footprint, but the Tab S9+ is a bit thinner and lighter. I appreciate that Samsung was able to bring the IP68 rating down to the FE+ version, giving both tablets protection from water and dust. This is really valuable if you take your tablet with you when you travel or if you take it to work, but it's also a great feature when you're just around the house and you have a dog that likes to clear everything off the table with her tail. Both tablets offer face recognition for biometric authentication and a more secure fingerprint sensor. With the Tab S9+, we're getting an under-display sensor, and with the FE+, it's integrated into the power button. Now, both sensors have worked great for me and they're super responsive and accurate, but I prefer the under-display version on the Tab S9+ because it's more organic to how I hold the tablet. Now, both tablets also have a MicroSD card slot, so you can upgrade the internal storage by up to one terabyte, and you can use that storage for photos, for videos, files, and for most apps. Now, continuing to look around the edges, we're getting four AKG tuned speaker on the Tab S9+ versus two on the FE+. And the flagship model definitely has a more full sound. The audio seems warmer and has more presence to it, which makes it a better choice for watching content. Now, both tablets have a USB-C port for charging and connecting accessories, but we're looking at 3.2 on the Tab S9+ versus only 2.0 on the FE+. Now, depending on what type of games you play, you may or may not notice a difference. If you're just playing less demanding games, you can easily do that on both tablets, but as you start playing more resource-intensive games, like "Genshin Impact," "COD Mobile," and "PUBG," there's a noticeable difference in both processing power and GPU performance, which does have an impact on my gaming experience. I'll quickly cover benchmarks and the Performance section, but there's no question that Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8 gen 2 chip in the Tab S9+ is more capable than the Exynos 1380 in the FE+ version. Starting with "Genshin Impact," I was able to play it on both devices, but the game performed better on the Tab S9+, with smoother graphics and less lag because of the more capable processor and the additional RAM. When playing "PUBG," gameplay was smoother and more responsive on the Tab S9+. And I could play with Graphics set to Smooth and Frame Rate set to 90 FPS. I could also set graphics anywhere from Balanced to HDR and Frame Rate set to Extreme, or Ultra HD for Graphics and Ultra for Frame Rate. With the FE+ model, I was limited to High Frame Rate, whether graphics were set to Smooth, Balanced, or HD. And then, of course, since that was as good as it got, I could get nowhere near 90 FPS. If playing more demanding games is a priority for you, then we know that game developers are always going to push the CPU and GPU and games are going to continue to evolve and demand more and more resources. When I look to keep a device for at least four to five years or even more, I'm always going to opt for the tablet that has better CPU and GPU performance than what I need now so that it continues to perform well in the future. Now, if you want to stream and play Xbox Games with the Game Pass app, you can pair an Xbox controller with both tablets and have extremely smooth gameplay as long as you have a reliable internet connection. So you can't really go wrong here. And speaking of places where you can't go wrong, if you're looking for great deals on one of these tablets, or just tech in general, check out today's sponsor, Best Buy, and their Top Deals. They have some amazing daily and weekly top deals with tons of categories to choose from. From laptops and computers, TVs and projectors, to small and major appliances, plus a lot more. Best Buy has great prices and a Price Match Guarantee. And my Best Buy members get exclusive offers on thousands of products. Right now, you can save $1,600 off a 77 inch Samsung OLED TV. There are some great deals on both earbuds and over-the-ear headphones. You can pre-order the Samsung Galaxy S24 series and get up to $150 Best Buy e-gift card. And Best Buy also has some great discounts on gaming computers and accessories. So if you wanna save some money on a gift or something for yourself, check out Best Buy's Top Deals, and thank you to Best Buy for sponsoring this portion of the video. Now back to the tablets, another important factor for some users is the ability to expand the functionality of each tablet by adding a keyboard case and a stylus. Now, both tablets are compatible with the same two versions of the Book Cover Keyboard from Samsung. And of course, you can always use an external keyboard and mouse. Now, both tablets also come with a free S Pen, which can be stored on the side or on the back of the tablet, but only the Tab S9+ has a Bluetooth-enabled S Pen, which offers some wireless functionality for things like camera and media playback. Now in terms of the actual writing or drawing experience, for most users, it's virtually identical, and neither requires a charge in order to write or draw. Looking at the camera systems, the Tab S9+ has a 13 megapixel wide and an eight megapixel ultrawide versus two eight megapixel cameras on the Tab S9 FE+. Both tablets have a 12 megapixel selfie camera, and here's a short sample. Here's a camera and microphone test of the Tab S9+. This should give you a pretty good idea of the type of image quality that you're going to get. And the Tab S9+ looks a little overexposed me. All I did was press Record. I didn't change any of the settings. We quickly talked about performance in the Gaming section. So let's look at the single and multi-core performance of the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip and the Exynos 1380, where we see the Snapdragon chip pull way ahead. We also see a score considerably higher in GPU performance, which helps explain some of the meaningful differences we saw when gaming. But I know that not everyone games, and these are just benchmarks. So what about typical average real life use? Well, of course you can surf the web, watch videos, or go on social media with both tablets, but essentially, in every aspect, the Tab S9+ feels snappier and more responsive. Even just navigating around the UI, opening and closing apps, you can notice a difference. And I would expect it to continue to perform better for longer. Now, power users who perform more demanding tasks, like photo and video editing, should definitely opt for the more capable Tab S9+. But always keep in mind what you plan on doing so that you don't overpay for performance that you don't need. Now, as far as OS and security updates, Samsung promises four years of OS updates and five years of security updates, which is nice. And again, keep in mind the difference in performance if you plan on keeping your tablet for a while. In terms of battery life, both tablets have a 10,090 milliampere-hour battery, but Samsung rates the FE+ model at 20 hours versus 16 hours on the Tab S9+. Now that I have the entire Tab S9 and FE lineup, I'm finishing the edit of my battery test. So go ahead and subscribe to be notified when it's published. Now, both Tablets offer 45 watts Super Fast Charging, which gets you to 100% in about 90 minutes, but neither tablet ships with a charging adapter, so that's something that you'll need to get separately. Now, when we look at the configuration options, the Tab S9+ is available with 256 or 512 gigabytes of internal storage, and both models come with 12 gigabytes of RAM. The FE+ model comes with 120 gigabytes of storage and eight gigs of RAM, or 256 and 12. Now, of course, more RAM is always better, but your typical FE+ user isn't a power user, so I would only upgrade the RAM if you also need the additional internal storage. Now, overall, it's clear that the Tab S9+ is the more powerful and capable tablet, has a better display, a much more powerful chip with better CPU and GPU performance, more internal storage, better speakers, a better camera system, external display support, and a better S Pen. But at about half the price, the Tab S9 FE+ is a very good value. If you don't need the best performance or the absolute best quality display, you're still getting the same size display, IP68 protection, and a lot of the same features, with better battery life. Now, you should check out this comparison. Hopefully this video is helpful. Click on my face to subscribe. You know what I always say, "Buy it nice or buy it twice." Good luck and see you soon.- When Samsung released the FE version of the Tab S9, I was so excited and I couldn't wait to do this comparison with the iPad 10. Both tablets are about the same size and the same price, but the choice wasn't as easy as I initially thought it would be. And by the way, I know prices around the world are very different, so if you're watching this from outside of the US, please let me know in the comment section where you're from and how much each of these tablets cost because obviously this is a really important factor and thank you to Best Buy for sponsoring a portion of this video. So the first thing most people consider is the display. And in this case, the iPad 10 has a 10.9 inch liquid retina 60 Hertz display with the resolution of 1640 by 2360, a four by three aspect ratio and 264 pixels per inch. The Tab S9 FE also has a 10.9 inch IPS LCD display, but it's a 90 Hertz display, has a resolution of 1440 by 2304, an aspect ratio of 16 by 10 and then a lower pixel density of 249. Now in terms of image quality, both displays are sharp and crisp, and if I'm being critical, the iPad has better color accuracy and the Tab S9 FE is a bit warmer and has a slight greenish shift. I do like that it's a 90 Hertz display on the Tab S9 FE because things like animations and scrolling look smoother. Now, 60 Hertz has never really been a deal breaker for me. Right now I'm using three different phones, the iPhone 15 Pro Max, the Samsung S23 Ultra and the Pixel 8 Pro. So I'm used to 120 Hertz, but I think a higher refresh rate is a nice to have, but not critical for most tasks on mobile devices. There are exceptions, of course, like some games, but things got a little strange there. So I'll come back to that in the dedicated gaming section of this video. Now, in terms of aspect ratio, the Tab S9 FE is better suited for watching video because the 16 by 10 aspect ratio is closer to most content and the image is larger and has smaller black bars. Now with the iPad 10, we're getting a four by three aspect ratio, which is wider in portrait mode, and it's really nice when taking handwritten notes using the Apple Pencil. Now another important difference is that the Tab S9 FE has a fully laminated display. So the display, the touch layer and the cover glass are fused together into a single display assembly and the image looks like it's printed right on top of the glass. On the iPad 10, there is an air gap between the display and the combination of cover glass and touch layer. For a lot of things like watching movies, surfing the web or playing games, it's not really something that you're going to notice unless you really look for it, but when you're using the stylus, it does make a difference. So with the iPad 10, you'll be able to see separation between the tip of the Apple Pencil and the content that's being created, especially if you're looking at an angle. With the Tab S9 FE because the image looks like it's on top of the glass, it's going to look like the tip of the S Pen is touching the line or the content that you're creating, which of course is better. The one advantage of a non laminated display is that if the display gets damaged, most of the time it's just a cover glass so replacement is relatively inexpensive. With a fully laminated display, the entire display assembly has to be replaced even if you just scratch the cover glass. I'll also get to a few other important stylus differences in just a moment, but first I want to talk about gaming. So I play a lot of games on my tablets and I was really curious to see how these two would match up. So I was able to play my usual games like Genshin, Asphalt and PUBG and then of course less demanding games. But there was an obvious difference in both processing power and GPU performance, which did have an impact on more resource intensive games. I'll quickly show you benchmarks in the performance section, but this was one of those areas where I could clearly see the advantage of the iPad's A14 chip over the Exynos 1380. Now using PUBG as an example, gameplay was smoother and more responsive on the iPad, and I could play with balanced graphics and extreme frame rate versus balanced graphics and high frame rate on the Tab S9. And then of course, I could definitely not get to the 90 FPS that would take advantage of the faster refresh rate on the Samsung display. I had a similar experience with Genshin, which again performed better on the iPad 10, even though it has less RAM than a Tab S9 FE. Now looking ahead, we know that game developers are always looking to push the CPU and GPU and games are going to evolve and start to demand more and more resources. If I'm looking for a device to keep for the next four or five years or even more, I'm always going to opt for the tablet that has better CPU and GPU performance than what I need right now so it continues to perform well into the future. Now, if you wanna stream and play Xbox Games with the Xbox Game Pass app, you can pair an Xbox controller with both tablets and have extremely smooth gameplay as long as you have a reliable internet connection. But there's one area where the Tab S9 FE comes out ahead and that's storage. The iPad 10 starts out with 64 gigabytes of internal storage versus 128 gigs on the Tab S9 FE. To give you a sense of what that means, iPad OS currently takes up a little over 10 gigabytes of storage, system data takes up another 11 gigs, and PUBG uses a little over 20 gigs. So that's 41 out of 64 available gigabytes already used up with no other apps, files or photos. Now both tablets are also available in 256 gigabyte options. With the iPad, that's an additional 150 bucks, and with the Tab S9 FE, it's an extra 70 bucks. Now the Tab S9 FE also has a micro SD card slot, which you can use to expand the internal storage by up to one terabyte. And you can use this storage for files, photos, videos, and for most apps. We'll talk more about the configuration options later on but for right now, I just wanna make sure that you have enough storage for all the apps and the games that you want to install. And that brings me to today's sponsor Best Buy and the Western Digital Storage Solutions for gamers. If you have a PlayStation 5, the Western Digital Black SN850 P NVME SSD is officially licensed. It's extremely easy to install. It's unbelievably fast, and this one terabyte version means that I'm not wasting any time deleting and downloading games when I run out of space. If you prefer Xbox, then check out the WD Black C50. It's designed in partnership with Xbox. It has a built-in heat sink to avoid lag, and it's designed to specifically meet the speed and lifespan requirements of your Xbox. And finally, if you prefer a gaming pc, check out the WD Black D10 desktop hard drive. It's designed to offer additional storage for demanding PC gaming rigs. It's plug and play, and it gives your gaming PC the reliable performance boost and capacity it needs. Not all SSDs and hard drives are created equal. So do it right and visit bestbuy.com to get a super fast Western Digital drive that was specifically designed for your gaming needs. And thank you to Best Buy for sponsoring this portion of the video. When we look at the overall design of these tablets, they're quite similar since Apple upgraded from the older iPad 9 design. Both tablets are machined aluminum, both have rounded corners and squared off edges, but the Tab S9 FE has slightly smaller bezels. We're getting a fingerprint sensor incorporated into the power button in both devices, on the iPad 10 it's on the short side, on the Tab S9 FE it's on the longer side, and both have been very accurate and responsive for me, but the iPad 10 has four speaker grills versus two on the Tab S9 FE, but both tablets only have two speakers, one on each side. In terms of audio quality, both are good but not as good as the higher end models. And the Tab S9 FE speakers are a tad louder and sound a bit brighter. One thing that I found when I'm gaming and holding the tablet in my hand is that on the iPad Air 4, I'm actually covering the speakers with my hand. So there are two other grills, so the sound can't come from there. But on the Tab S9 FE, the speakers are on the top if I'm holding in a landscape mode, so I'm not blocking them. Now personally, I'm okay either way because whenever I'm gaming, I'm wearing a headset, but I just wanted to mention it in case you don't. The Tab S9 FE also has an IP 68 rating, so we're getting protection from water and dust. Now, obviously this is important if you take your tablet with you and you travel or when you go outside, but even when you're just around the house, it's nice to have additional protection from accidental spills. Now, both tablets use a USB-C port for charging and connecting accessories, which brings me to the stylus and keyboard options. The iPad 10 is compatible with the first generation Apple Pencil, which costs $99. It pairs and charges using a cable, and it requires a USB to lightning adapter. The iPad is also compatible with the newer USB-C Apple Pencil, which charges and pairs with a wire but doesn't require an adapter. It costs $79. It doesn't offer pressure sensitivity, but it does magnetically attach to the side of the iPad. The Tab S9 FE comes with a free S Pen, which can be stored on the side or on the back of the tablet. It has a programmable button and it doesn't need to be charged in order to write or draw. Now, in terms of the actual writing experience, the Apple Pencil has a firm tip, so it's a little harsher when it hits the glass and it feels like you're writing on a single sheet of paper that's placed on a hard surface. The S Pen has a softer tip to it, so when it hits the glass, it gives a little, and it feels more like you're writing on a full pad of paper where the pages compress as you press down. Now, one isn't objectively better than the other for every single use and it's going to come down to which one feels better for you. So as always, I hope this description helps you make a choice. Now, as far as the camera systems, the iPad has a more capable rear facing camera in terms of resolution and frame rate, and both tablets have a 12 megapixel front facing camera. And here's a quick sample. Here's a camera and microphone test of the iPad 10 and the Tab S9 FE. This should give you a pretty good idea of the type of image quality that you're going to get and the type of audio quality that you should expect from each tablet. Now, both tablets also have the front facing camera on the long edge, so you're always properly framed during video calls. Now, when we talked about gaming, I mentioned the performance of the iPad's A14 Bionic, and the Tab S9 FE's Exynos 1380. So let's quickly look at single and multi-core performance where we see the Apple chip pull ahead. We also see it's scored noticeably higher in GPU performance, which helps explain some of the differences we saw. Now, of course, these are just benchmark scores. So what about just typical real life use? Well, if you're surfing the web, watching video or going on social media, it doesn't really matter that much. You can easily do that with both tablets, but the iPad does feel snappier and more responsive, and I would expect it to continue to perform better for longer. Now, if you're doing something like a very heavy video editing, then again the iPad would be a better choice. When multitasking, the iPad can run two apps in split view, plus additional apps in a slide over window. The Tab S9 FE can run three tiled apps at the same time with more flexibility when it comes to how much real estate each app takes. It can also run multiple floating windows, which can be resized, and you can even change the transparency. Now, both tablets have a customizable dock, but the Tab S9 FE also has a super handy side panel for quick access. Now, both tablets can be used as additional displays for compatible desktops and laptops. Apple calls this feature sidecar and Samsung calls it second screen. These are great features and you should all use them, but if you're looking for more of a laptop replacement, the Tab S9 FE has DeX, which I love, but there is one limitation here. So if you're new to Samsung, DeX essentially reboots the tablet with an OS that looks very similar to what you get on a laptop. You've got a task bar where you can minimize and see active apps. You have an actual desktop with icons, and you can run multiple floating windows or snap windows to the side of the display. But unlike with the higher end Tab S9, S9+ and S9 Ultra, you can't connect an external monitor and run a dual display setup. The iPad 10 does let you mirror your display to an external display, but it doesn't stretch out to fill the entire monitor because the iPad 10 doesn't fully support stage manager, and it's not an extended display. So when it comes to being a laptop replacement, it's still a win for the Tab S9 FE, but not quite as good as what you get with the higher end models. Now, battery life is always interesting because it comes down to what you actually do. So comparing these devices when they're new, I'm looking at about 10 hours on the iPad 10, about 13 to 14 hours on a Tab S9 FE. Again, depending on what I was doing. Now, of course, these times are not of me gaming the entire time, and they include things like surfing the web, watching video, using social media apps, and working with productivity apps. Now, when you're looking at available apps, the Google Play Store, the Galaxy Store and the Apple App Store have a ton of options for pretty much everything that you need. In general, I'm going to give the edge to the iPad 10 because the apps seem to be better optimized for a tablet. But as I've said in recent videos, the gap continues to shrink. Several creative apps like Affinity Photo and Procreate are only available for the iPad, but it's great to see that there's an Android version of Luma Fusion. Now, both tablets run the latest available operating systems and Samsung promises four years of OS upgrades and five years of security updates. Now, Apple devices typically get longer support than that. So when I take into account the improved CPU and GPU performance, I'm going to give the iPad the edge in terms of longevity. I also want you to consider other products that you own which make up your ecosystem. Now, Samsung has made some really impressive improvements over the past few years, adding much needed integration between multiple devices, wireless file and text sharing, then additional cross device integrations. And even though the gap again continues to shrink, Apple's ecosystem is still more complete and more tightly integrated due to the fact that they have full control over the hardware and software on all of their devices. Now, when we look at configuration options and prices from the official stores, we already talked about the storage options, but both the 64 and 256 gigabyte models of the iPad 10 come with four gigabytes of RAM. with the Tab S9 FE, the 128 gigabyte model comes with six gigs of RAM and the 256 gigabyte model comes with eight. So here's how I look at this choice. The iPad is more powerful and will be more capable if you plan on keeping your device for many years and you like to play more demanding games at higher settings or performing other resource intensive tasks. It also offers better optimized apps, access to some creative specific apps and better longterm support. The Tab S9 FE is smaller and lighter. It offers additional protection with an IP 68 rating. It comes with a free S Pen, more storage, expandable storage, more capable multitasking, and better battery life. Now, you should see how the Tab S9 Ultra compares with the previous model. You know what I always say, buy it nice or buy it twice. Good luck and see you soon.