Hello and welcome to Revie wsPK! My name is Ameer and this is Xiaomi's latest Redmi Pad SE which is a budget tablet from Xiaomi. If you remember we did an unboxing of Redmi Pad, this is a basically a water down version of that. Only a single variant is launching in Pakistan for Rs. 62,000 which has 8GB RAM and 128GB storage so, some specs have been reduced here keeping the budget in mind we will talk about that in today's video first, let's quickly unbox it. As soon as we open the box, our Redmi Pad is at the top in this fabric cover. As always, some main selling points of the device are mentioned on this cover which makes this device look like a media consumption and productivity device to me to watch videos and movies and to do office emails etc. Along with this, we get a charger cable and power brick in the box and some user manuals And here is our device. Redmi Pad SE's design and feel is exactly like the original Redmi Pad today, we have it in Graphite Grey colour it is also made of Unibody Aluminium which means, it's body is made of a single piece of Aluminium and it has the same soft brushed matte finish and the edges are kept flat. It is very. obvious that this tablet is inspired by some other world famous tablets even beyond the look, this Redmi Pad impresses with its design it's thickness is 7.4mm which is not too thick and it's weight is 478g. Moving forward to the display Redmi Pad SE's display is 11 inches in size it is slightly bigger than the last time it is also an IPS LCD panel and the most special thing about it is it has a 90Hz high refresh rate which makes the overall experience of this tablet smoother the second special thing is its resolution it is a Full HD display which shows 207 ppi pixel density which is slightly less than the current iPad Air the screen to body ratio is 81% and this is also almost the same as the iPad Air And as far as the brightness is concerned it has a peak brightness of 400 nits which is not too much if you take it out in the sun, you will feel that the display is not able to be seen easily but you won't have any issues using it indoors. But overall, I do like this display while watching video. and movies in daily use the experience of Redmi Pad SE is very enjoyable and it also has Widevine L1 support so, apps like Netflix will be able to show content in Full HD And then, friends, here Xiaomi has also taken special care of the audio experience because in Redmi Pad SE, there are quad speakers like last time two at the bottom and two at the top so, the stereo audio scene is on and Dolby Atmos has also been added here to give a surround sound effect. Now, let's take a look under the hood so, here there is a Qualcomm Snapdragon 680 chipset it is a 4G chipset and is based on a 6nm architecture and it is normally an entry-level type of chipset along with it, there is Adreno 610 GPU there is 8GB RAM and 128GB built-in storage But there is also an SD card expansion available here if you want to increase the storage of this tablet or if you want to bring your files on it, you can do that as well Now, the first thing is that where the original Redmi Pad was designed for gamers as well there, this Redmi Pad SE at best, will handle casual gaming RAM is enough here but this Snapdragon 680 chip is not that powerful it is now considered as a budget level or even entry-level chipset Having said that, as I told you earlier I consider this Redmi Pad SE as a media content consumption or as a productivity device. and it is fine for both those tasks the experience of watching videos and movies is very solid here it can easily do emails, messaging and word processing and then, a giant battery of 8000 mAh is also given here which is a big selling point for a tablet of this size because in this size, you usually see a battery of 7000 to 7250 mAh so, you can expect a very good battery life from this Redmi Pad SE. Also, keep in mind that it has a Snapdragon 680 chipset which also does not drain the battery much but in charging, this Redmi Pad SE. takes a lot of time, because the power brick that comes with it charges it only at 10W which means that this tablet will charge easily and there are chances that you will have to charge it overnight if you try to charge it in the middle of the day then it will take a lot of time Now, moving forward, let's talk about the cameras and let's face it people do not use the cameras of tablets a lot so, there is a very entry-level setup in the cameras there is a 5MP selfie camera at the front which is centrally aligned so, you will use it in horizontal orientation I like that! whereas, at the back, there is a 8MP single main camera I do not mind its back camera much but it would have been better if the front camera was a little more than 5MP because nowadays, a lot of people use their tablets for video conferencing and zoom calls so, if the camera is not of good quality, then it is not fun but according to me, most people will use these cameras occasionally Now, at the end, we will talk about the software of this device because for a tablet, its software is also very important. and the requirements of such a big screen are very different from a small screen so, in this interface, Redmi has added a little more features than its mobile interface here is Xiaomi's MIUI 14 on top of Android 13 and its look is something like this there is a dock at the bottom where you can put your frequently used apps if you drag it from top right, then a quick settings comes up and notifications come from top left you can also turn on app drawer by going to home screen settings by swiping up on the home screen, all your apps will come and this interface is designed for tablets so, multitasking is also kept in mind here and you can use apps in split screen mode and the floating windows feature is also present and through these features, you can take advantage of this big screen in the right way So, friends, I think, overall, Xiaomi has given an entry level but useful product with its Redmi Pad SE I really liked its Unibody Aluminium design. its experience for content consumption is also amazing, And it has a huge battery, so, you can use it more According to me, this type of tablet is great for travelling, and great for students, or if you only want to watch movies, this can help you on that as well, but now I want to know your thoughts, what do you think about Redmi Pad SE do leave your opinion in the comments below. If you liked the video, then do share it with your friends if you want to support the channel, then do share it even more Thank you so much for watching till the end I will meet you in the next video Goodbye!the Xiaomi brand doesn't need any introduction these days the latest affordable tablet marketed under the Redmi brand carries a simple name - it's just a Redmi Pad in today's video I'm going to show you everything you want to know about Xiaomi Redmi Pad which thanks to its core components represents absolutely fantastic value we'll discuss the external design and the core components of the Redmi Pad I'll test the cameras and check the gaming performance and I will show you through the main features of the Redmi Pad and hopefully this video will answer all your questions - so stay with me hi what's up guys - my name is Adam - and you're watching #FamilyPopTV YouTube channel first let's check what's in the box inside a neat packaging we can find a Redmi Pad itself a 15 watt standard charger with the USB-C cable manual and warranty certificates and a little ejector tool additionally you could get a dedicated plastic case and an external keyboard which matching the size of the Redmi Pad the design of the pad incorporates a precision aluminum unibody enclosure that is strong light and durable and the very first thing you'll notice when you lift the pad from its box is the slim body with only seven millimeters of thickness it features a rectangular design with straight edges and curved corners which not just look elegant but also efficiently packages the solid technology inside I'll talk about it in a minute the pad comes in three color versions: mint green moonlight silver and graphite gray - which is the model we're reviewing today at the top edge we can find the speaker grilles and the power on/off button the left edge has a discrete micro SD card slot two microphones and volume up and down buttons and the bottom edge has another two speaker grilles and the USB-C socket to plug the charger keyboard or external OTG devices such as hard disks the positioning of the four speakers at the top and bottom edges is ideal to generate surround Dolby Atmos sound however the sound is fire straight to the palm of your hands and not into the room at the back we got a primary 8 megapixels camera compartment it's just out so it might cause the tablet to rock when placed flat on a desk but it doesn't spoil the overall finish 10.61 inch display - please note it's not 10.6 - but it's 10.61 inch adopting a 5:3 aspect ratio and it looks very close to the one used in Apple iPads the display has a small bezel which is just enough to let you hold the pad comfortably in your hands without the risk of accidentally tapping the screen Xiaomi has taken steps to reduce the bezel to just about perfect size overall build quality is very high these days almost everyone prefers the narrower body both in terms of design and usability this might be a budget tablet but that certainly isn't given away by its design as I mentioned earlier Xiaomi has fitted a new 90 Hertz 10.61 inch IPS display with a resolution of 1200 by 2000 pixels and adopts 5:3 aspect ratio this is a very good quality IPS panel which makes for excellent life-like colors and very good viewed angles and is also very fluid and the Redmi Pad offers sharp images and clear text blacks are pretty good too with a high contrast ratio and a maximum brightness of 400 nits that's really not bad for a budget tablet and should make the screen much easier to read in a sunlight it's not often you'll pick a tablet to use it as a camera the camera app is basic but it takes really good images and you do get HDR on variety of filters this is an example of the photo taken by the 8 megapixel back camera for comparison the same photos taken by the latest iPad - can you tell the difference? let's capture some video the Pad records videos in 4k and 30 FPS however there's no image stabilization so the captured material might be a bit wobbly for comparison the same video captured by the latest iPad Air around the front where you're more likely to take advantage of the camera for video chat is an 8 megapixel selfie camera which allows to record the videos and make video calls in 4K resolution you can also use this to unlock the tablet using face recognition the Redmi Pad is fitted with Mediatek Helio G99 processor built on the highly efficient TSMC 6 nanometers Helio G99 features an octa-core CPU with two high performance ARM cortex-A76 processor cores clocking up to 2.2 gigahertz and highly capable ARM Mali G57-class GPU the processor is comparable to Snapdragon 4Gen1 and Mediatek Dimensity 700 and its 6 nanometers class enables it to be exceptionally power efficient the pad comes in three variants: 3GB of RAM and 60GB of storage - this is the most budgety version which is the one I'm testing today then there's a 4GB RAM version with 128GB of storage and the highest spec version with 6GB of RAM plus 128GB of internal storage I would strongly recommend to get the highest spec version and I'll tell you why although this is the lowest spec version of Redmi Pad with only 3GB of RAM in a real-world use I found no issues with lags when opening the apps and navigating through the menus it's actually very fluid storage is fine even if you opt in for the 64GB especially now when you can add a microSD card up to 1TB in capacity so with that being said let's check out how the Redmi Pad performs when playing the most power demanding games currently available and before we carry on make sure you're subscribed I tried one of the best racing games - Asphalt 9 Legends the image quality isn't the highest however the fluidity of the game is fine no dropped FPS even in a busy moments right, next in a queue one of my favorite shooters - Call of Duty Mobile I couldn't change the image quality as in the settings there's a "low" for graphics as default settings however the game works without any significant frame drops it's a bit disappointing because to be honest I was expecting slightly better visual performance from that new Helio G99 that everyone's raving about these days the next in line in this is probably most processing power hungry game of all times - Genshin Impact I guess the graphic quality and the FPS are the lowest by default but even now we can notice significant drops in frames the game gets choppy if there's a loads going on and that's why the extra RAM would be very useful here no point to play Genshin or other high-end games if you have only 3GB of RAM on board so again if you're thinking about getting the Redmi Pad consider the highest spec model and then you won't be disappointed and what's interesting this game is being pre-installed on the tab which implies it's supposed to run great on this machine but it's just average... and this is exactly what I've just mentioned - 6GB of RAM is the best balance between the cost and performance users who want to play the power hungry games or have many different apps opened at the same time and want to switch between them quickly or want to use some video editing apps should definitely go for six gigabytes RAM version in the antutu benchmark test the lowest version of Xiaomi Redmi Pad with 3GB of RAM gets a score of 354.841 points which is comparable with the iPhone XR and that's about three times less than the latest iPad Air but let's keep in mind it's a budget device inside this Redmi Pad we got 8000mAh battery and according to Xiaomi the battery life remains up to 12 hours video playback during my use I have managed to record around 10 hours of YouTube streaming which is close to promised all-day-life score as an illustrative example I stream YouTube on iPad Air just to see how the Redmi's battery holds up against nearly four times more expensive device as much as I like my iPad its battery was the only disappointment for me it died after around 4 hours of streaming and Redmi Pad is still alive the Redmi's battery saving modes significantly contributes to the good performance of the battery right it died after approximately 10 hours and the latest iPad Air's battery died after 4 hours in terms of connectivity the Redmi comes with dual bands 2.4GHz plus 5GHz Wi-Fi and Bluetooth 5.3 on board and there's no support for a mobile networks no supports for NFC for contactless payments but I'm more surprised by the lack of GPS it's obviously possible to use apps such as Google Maps but it uses Wi-Fi scanning to pinpoint your location the Pad runs on MIUI 13 based on Android 12 it has loads of extras you won't find in stock Androids such as dual apps and split or second screen but the MIUI is very easy to navigate and is well optimized for the landscape use there's a dark mode, split screen floating windows, game turbo and also there's a virtual expansion of the RAM space it can reserve additional 1GB of storage to be used as a virtual extension of RAM which is very useful the Redmi Pad is an ideal budget tablet for general use with an attractive design and some competitive hardware on board it's ideal for streaming YouTube or Netflix or for consuming any visual content thanks to its 90Hz high quality display and Dolby Atmos sound system if you would need an inexpensive device for casual gaming I would strongly recommend the highest version with the 6GB of RAM which also offers 128GB of storage and that's enough to install several games you can pick up the Xiaomi Redmi Pad on Amazon as well as on AliExpress and there are affiliate links in this video description okay guys that's it for today I hope you enjoyed that video and found it pretty informative and useful if you're new to the channel make sure you're subscribed so you won't miss when the next video comes outHi everyone welcome you to another unboxing video so today what we have taken for unboxing is [music] redmp3 sd display it has i care display and 6 am spun to spun 680 processor in it and it has written battery life of 8 hours So it has a battery of 8000 A, it is not written in it that it has long lasting battery, it is written that it has speaker power, it has got certification for its speaker and there is nothing in it with a favorite, it is written on this side that it has 4GB RAM, 128GB RAM, so its When I checked it also comes in other variants like 4gb ram 64gb ram and one comes 4gb ram 128gb which is this and one also comes in 256gb and it comes in three color variants one is mint blue mint green And one is lavender lavender and one is dark gray or sorry gray, it has some color, it comes in three colors, grey, mint green and lavender or purple, whatever you say, let's open it now, so before taking it, I will try it a little. I did research for all the tabs around this, so I went first, A series comes, ultra series comes, all those come more, so take the other series, its a9 series, a8 series, a9 plus, I saw in one, the price was around this. It was around Rs 200-220 so I felt the difference between it and it was that its refresh rate was 90 Hz, it had a reference rate of 60 Hz and some had 4GB 64GB. In this price range, I liked everything about it and a The thing is good that I will get to know if I open it now, otherwise I found my earphone jack in it which was not found in the other ones, so that is also a point. Let us unbox it now and let us see what is inside it. So, what I was saying is that what we checked is that it offers pen plus back cover for Rs. 199, so I had to take it because the brand doesn't have much to offer and usage also matters. I don't have such a fast usage, I have a laptop, so mostly I use it just for travelling, if I have to use it only for watching movies etc, then the same thing is written in it, Stylish Metal Univ Design 6M Snap. Dragon processor 90 Hz refresh rate 8000 mAh large battery, so it comes with a cover, after that your tub has come, a thin cover has been put on it and it is of bag type, now keep it on the side, the accessories that are with it are the first. Let's see what is there in it, there is a small box inside it in which you get a charger which is very useful and it has Type C, Made in China Type C Pinay, there are two boxes for charging, this was another box in which Some books give books to read, there is a manual about it, no one reads what is inside it, that's fine and there comes a warranty card, which is your bill itself, the main warranty card, after this I don't . Think and something, yes, there is a pin in it, maybe the memory card is expandable in it, I had forgotten that the memory card is expandable till One TV, that is one thing good in it, if you want, you can put your memory card in it. For expandable storage, this is a Its slot has arrived, let's leave it here for now, there is something inside it, there is nothing inside it, there is nothing inside it, no, it just sounds, that's all we get inside it, so let's open it, which is the main thing, we have given a cover . When we got our tab, its look and feel is like this, that is, it looks good, it is good to hold in the hand, let's turn it on, it has a speaker here, we will check it, how much sound does it produce, and it has a C type charger. And just like I said that earphone jack is given in it and there are two speakers on this side too, so I hope that its sound will be very good. There is a PIM tray here, not a seam tray, this is its tray, I think it is my memory card tray. And this side is completely flat, there is nothing in it, this one is on button, I just pressed it, so this booting is happening now, how much time does it take for booting, let's also see, it has not happened yet, what time does it take, this is the first boot. So that's why it takes time, so I will not edit it at all, I will put it in full text, so do people know how much time it takes to tink it, aye yawai pad 14, so above this, this is above this, aye yawai ka yawai, above this, so above this, chick. If the language is English, then it is fine. Next let's choose the region. So right now I am in Germany, so I can go to the drop down in it, otherwise you can also go to the search and see. Germany is already setup, so this is how it is for setup, so you can see it. You can view horizontally as well as vertically It is a normal thing vertically, so right now I just want to do a basic test in it, one is its video and one is its sound, we have to see both of them, so right now I don't want to do it, okay, so let's play some 4K videos in this, in which my My internet should also run that fast, it doesn't work in Germany, I searched for this video, now let's play a 4K video, its sound makes me feel happy while watching it , I get high in the language [music] I must be hearing the sound, its full sound I do [music], it has two speakers on this side, sound is coming from two on this side, so I liked the sound very much, the picture quality is also very good, it is very correct [music] , so now this is the sound. And the video seemed very correct to me, it is 144 which is pad six, its better resolution will obviously be visible because it is 144, its refresh rate is 90, so 90 Hz means I felt it very correct, meaning the laptop has been placed very sexy from the top, after that more. One thing is that Pad 6 is there, let's close it, first it was Pad 6 which is there, so I thought that I will just put it in it, it will be good for normal travel etc., so this was its review, now I use it, if there is anything above it. If you have any questions, please comment. If I can tell you something then there is no need to dive too deep.Hello everyone, you are on the polz net channel My name is Sani and here there are only detailed reviews and long streams and today, against all odds, in spite of everything, I will tell you about this tablet. I bought it on aliexpress during a sale, they sent it to me quite quickly, it’s redmi Pad SE from we had a redmi pad last year, I reviewed it by the way, it’s quite popular. What’s surprising Why is it surprising because it’s a super mega economy class on the one hand on the other hand It has everything you need, it’s possible to connect headphones directly via the MIC, not only Bluetooth Of course there is wi-fi Of course, it is possible to expand the internal memory via a memory card, there are quite good speakers here, not the worst pixel density of 90 Hz of the screen, and finally, it seems like finally a Qualcom BCC processor because I remind you that in the previous version we had a helio g99 But as they say, we are not in a hurry to buy Why Because several things in the world are now selling poorly. The first is tablets. The second is selling poorly is laptops. And third, you can google yourself that solid-state drives are selling very poorly. That is, if you are going to purchase such a device, it seems that you have a choice small but in fact just space Why Because they are not particularly moving forward like flagships, for example, with smartphones in terms of cameras or processors, they are, in a sense, marking time, trying to make for us a more convenient product, comfortable for use with a longer battery life And Of course, at a lower cost, how well Xiaomi Redmi did with this device you will now find out in the video. Of course, with useless examples of the camera’s operation, let’s move on to unpacking. Packaging weighs 837 g. This tablet comes in a white box with a picture of the tablet itself; model name and brief characteristics. Of course, The box came intact, as did the tablet itself, everything was packaged reliably and perfectly, in the kit we have documentation cable with USB type-c power supply for a very modest 10 W and the redmi tablet itself decided to save on everything, together with Xiaomi the slot in the tablet is designed for a memory card of up to 1 TV Although it also asks for a physical SIM card, but there is no such option here, the dimensions of the device are 255 by 167 by 8 mm and the tablet weighs 468 g, we fly further, draws in the sea, we read the description Which ones are constantly relevant now, these are 5 mi Benda in the seventh episode, they are given away for likes, subscriptions and comments to any video monthly Subscribe with a bell Don't forget to subscribe to the Telegram channel for mutual aid discounts and my personal Telegram channel. The links in the description to the word on Ali are now on sale and there are a lot of interesting things there and Yes, I even bought pixels there for the eighth and 8 Pro, there are also a lot of useful things there small things for 180 rubles in general there is where to rummage today what will happen tomorrow come into the cart you will see everyone Thank you very much in advance for watching let's fly to buy redmi Pat SE you can get it in grey, mint green and lavender Olya colors the edges of the tablet are straight the block with the camera on the back looks good the body matte And it is made of aluminum alloy, the design of the device is attractive, the build quality is good, the body, by the way, is not particularly easily soiled in the hands; it is comfortable to print in a vertical position as well as in a horizontal position; it is quite convenient on the case; the power button is located on the body; volume control rocker; USB type-c OTG connector version 2.0 microphones four stereo speakers Dolby atmos and sound preset even a custom equalizer on board but there is no vibration here the sound quality is good in my opinion it lacks volume and depth otherwise such sound for this price tag is enough for everyday use of a 3.5 mm midc on board for what a separate plus But for the way it was made, in my opinion, in all the reviews it is clear that some kind of collective farm approach is not only asymmetrical, but also the feeling that it was cut out with a crooked drill. But the only thing is that there is no support for a branded keyboard cover and stylus support can be seen here and there in advertising but I haven’t seen the official statement, let’s fly further redmi Pat SE is equipped with an 11-inch IPS display, it is slightly larger compared to the previous model with a resolution of 19920 by 12200 pixels. But in terms of pixel density here, the frames of the screen are downscale; standard viewing angles are within normal limits for such a matrix Body screen ratio 84.4 pro available support for 16.7 million colors contrast ratio of 15,500 to one plus the screen has tuv Rain Land certification blue light protection screen certification without anything and everything on board there is a reading mode version 3.0 pixel density here has become worse than in the previous version of redmi 207 ppi brightness 400 nits when light hits the screen directly, the brightness may or may not be enough. It all depends on you. And of course, I wouldn’t recommend using it on the beach; it won’t be enough brightness at home; auto-brightness works great and quickly adjusts to changing lighting; screen refresh rate is maximum 90 Hz with adaptive syn technology, while I want to say that it drops to more than 4 Hz and, in principle, I’m not surprised, the processor does not pass the touch sampling frequency test. You can see on the screen there is a multi-touch for 10 touches, it responds quite quickly and unlocks the screen well You can use standard unlocking methods as well as facial recognition, unfortunately there is no fingerprint scanner, facial recognition works well, both in the vertical position of the tablet and in the horizontal position, even at a slight angle, you can enter biometric data for up to two persons, for which special thanks, we fly further, the processor is installed qualcomm snapdragon 680 C tech process 6 nmt with eight cores and a maximum frequency of 2.4 GHz As they say One step forward two back Yes redmi of the previous version even if it was helio but the processor was more vigorous graphics processor adrana 610 interface Mi iPad in version fourteen based on Android version thirteen Of course all this will be updated the system is available in Russian since it is Global RAM is available in a choice of 46 and 8 GB but of course I would not recommend considering 4re at all because with six it slows down very quickly the internal memory emmc version 5.1 of 128 GB for which is definitely a huge minus , but I remind you that it is possible to expand the internal memory by inserting a microSD And this is good. The tablet uses wi-fi of the fifth series, old and old Bluetooth version 5.0, video calling via messenger is quite convenient, the microphones work well, the sound is clear, NFC Of course, it is not supported GPS is missing pcmark I have it failed But to put it simply , in one hour playing games with simultaneous streaming on Twitch, only 20% of the charge is consumed and about 6% is spent when watching YouTube for an hour on Wi-Fi. Of course, it also supports wired charging with a power of up to 18 W, it will charge everything equals about 2 hours, let's move on to the tests throttling test it passes poorly geekbench fails also not good you can see the numbers for yourself 3D Mark knocked out the minimum number of points the main thing was knocked out Because some devices can’t even pass it how much did it knock out Tutu these are tears less than x hundreds of thousands of points this is 20% worse than the processor in its previous version. By the way, the 3D brand also had fairly stable work. In the rear part, we placed a unit with an 8-megapixel main sensor with an aperture of 2.0, that’s all the gags; video recording is available in a maximum resolution of 1080p 30 FPS front camera 5 megapixels with an aperture of 2.2, the maximum resolution for shooting video here is 1080p 30 FPS modes for photo and video shooting, a minimum number, but the standard on-board cameras in this tablet are not a strong point for video calls, in principle, well, 1080 30p Let's be objective, no one you won’t be able to drag a tablet up a mountain with you, and of this size, and with such a camera, but you just have a unique opportunity to look at the person who dragged it, and that’s how the camera will work with the X5 X5; this magnification can be paused; you can stop and in general, if you shoot the whole thing with one hand, then the shooting I don’t know what it’s good for, but it might be good for something, in any case, you see an example of how it works and the front camera is 108p 30 FPS, the same conditions as for the main camera of the place in which you definitely won’t go with this tablet and you definitely won’t shoot with it, but suddenly you forgot your phone, your child stuffed this thing into a backpack, you can shoot with it Just like that and A little more video, literally 15 seconds, I don’t know how people make video microphones how they work it out But on Twitch they worked it out very poorly, quietly and night shooting with a front camera like this approximately you will be able to film yourself with a front camera At night, of course it slows down I hope the microphones work with the ball you can see for yourself how things are here Where are the night videos, there was lightning that you definitely won’t see you see how the camera breathes and everything slows down I hope you can hear my voice Well that's basically everything you needed to know about night photography, which of course can't be good for that kind of money with such a thing, I rarely suffer, example of working in an elevator. And the camera of the RI tablet, look, the camera isn't breathing, the autofocus isn't breathing. I mean, well, now again cons no vibration motor no support for a proprietary keyboard bad type of internal memory you can play but it will be a pain and this is two steps back relative to their previous model from the same redmi I want to note the price you can see at the link in the description of the video Don’t forget to subscribe to the Telegram channel for mutual assistance discounts and my personal Telegram channel Follow the links in the description to everyone Thank you so much for watching and subscribe to the channel with a bell double thank you I want to use the camera of the device itself in a non-standard way because it’s really dark And again Sony fx3 through the Rod microphone that I’m wearing put on so this is what I would like to tell you Step forward two back, that is, they made a processor, they crammed in a weaker internal memory, poor pixel density here below, the screen is 400, in principle, there is enough brightness But who is this for, what is this device for, so that they just have an updated fleet of economy -class or they were just given a lko Movses litter 680 they had nowhere to stuff them But in this collective farm drill they probably drank a minijack in the case for it you just need to swear, okay, our type sish neck is not in the center But this does it Well, what a disgrace -I repeat about the fleet of tablets, it’s the same thing as with smart watches on them. By the way, the top 10 was already on the channel and I try to do reviews for almost all smart watches in the same way as for most tablets. We have a sea of ​​tablets from Samsung But there are very few of them cheap, but on the other hand, we have Norov’s Huawei VSS and tablets from the Huawei Air Force, which do not have Google services. Of course, I don’t recommend them if you take realme pads, then everything is obscurantist there, but there is a 50% lower price tag if you take the old one redmi then it is more preferable because it has a more powerful processor for whom and for what is this the case if you purchased in principle in dollar equivalent a very good buy and to say that something there has vibration something there has besides this I don’t know any better camera Well, friends, we are not just paying for the brand here, we are overpaying here, first of all, for the system, system and plus software Yes, it stutters Yes, 90 Hz is not everywhere here and they will most likely slow down facts, but does this device have the right to life, yes, although I If I were in their place, I definitely wouldn’t release something like this. I can definitely recommend it. If you bought it, then yes. If you didn’t buy it, then a thousand times. Think about it because everything is quite simple in tablets, there is a very large selection, insanely large, even among some flagship devices. If you open it, we will shoot ourselves As they say in the foot of Avito, you will see just an insane number of tablets that are also sold, by the way, as smart watches and there are also plenty to choose from. Why Because this, like laptops, is an absolutely unpopular thing. You must remember this, where are your scripts? I have this thing with a keyboard that costs as much as these two tablets. But it’s exactly there. That is, I only use it on the road to mount a light one. And although it can be heavy, it can be taken out and said that MA are those who need it, like styluses in smartphones that only s23 Hooray, they will go and choose all the information that I could give you on it I gave it to me as a device as a stand-alone without a choice Yes, as a device that has an alternative, definitely not, first of all because of the process, well, you laugh 300,000 points Van Tutu is not you understand my emotions I hope that if you have reached this point then you are interested in my opinion in addition to, in principle, all tests, subscribe to the channel with a bell of goodness and good luck to you, dear friendsHonestly, this tablet is very nice. Hello everyone, it's Jo. Today I'm going to tell you what I thought of the Redmi Pad SE, the new one entry-level tablet from Xiaomi. With the tablet, Xiaomi provided us with a USB type C cable, a 5V 2A selector charger and a needle for the SD card slot. When you pick up the tablet, it's hard to imagine being on equipment entry level and yet, it is the case. The unibody case is made of aluminum, the edges are flat and the finishes are good, even very good. There is honestly not much to complain about this Redmi Pad SE in that regard . And I would add that it is even as qualitative as tablets sold 2 to 3 times more expensive. Yes, yes, really. Especially since it is practical to transport and even to use with its low weight of 478 grams . Its dimensions are 255.53 mm by 167.08 for 7.36 mm thickness. On the front, we have rather thin and homogeneous borders with a screen that occupies 84.4% of the surface. It's an 11-inch Full HD+ panel, with a definition of 1920 by 1200 pixels, so 207 pixels per inch. It's not a very high definition for a screen of this size, we agree, but it's still perfectly OK to read text or watch content. In good conditions, the image quality is good, the colors are beautiful and well contrasted, even if the blacks are not as deep as you could have with an AMOLED screen. But the same can be said of all IPS screens compared to AMOLED. We can also precisely adjust the colors, the contrasts. I noticed two defects on the screen. Firstly, there is the high reflectance which makes the screen difficult to read when viewed from a wide angle. And there is too little brightness to use the tablet in direct sunlight. Outdoors, yes, but not in direct sunlight. The screen refresh rate is 90 Hz. And I find a good compromise between 60 Hz less fluid and the more demanding 120 Hz. So we're in between. And it therefore provides appreciable fluidity while having less impact than 120 Hz on autonomy . Unfortunately, the feeling of fluidity is still marred at times by some jerks. But it's not due to the screen itself. There are no problems on the screen side. It's because of the processor. So we are not using a super efficient processor. It's a Snapdragon 680. It's a very decent processor, no problem. We already found it on entry-level phones in 2022. But even if its performance is honorable, it's not war lightning. And so we can see some slowdowns from time to time. This is coupled with 4, 6 or 8 GB of LPDDR4X Ram memory and 128 GB of eMMC 5.1 storage . So we have no choice about storage. It's 128, if you want 256, you'll look elsewhere. No, there is still a trick. This means that you can insert an SD card to increase the storage to 1 Tera. And I appreciate that. So let me be clear, this configuration is very good for this price range. And it will allow you to do basic tasks very correctly. It's not at all a hassle to use. If you don't have big needs for a tablet for demanding applications or something, it will do the job. affair. If you like the basic interface of Xiaomi smartphones, which is called MIUI, you will be on conquered territory with the interface of this tablet which is called MIUI Pad. You will easily find your bearings, it is similar in many aspects. And there is an aspect that I really appreciate on MIUI and which is also present on MIUI Pad. This is the ability to modify transitions between pages on the Android desktop. And whether you prefer a slide, fade, circular, page, waterfall, rotated or even cube effect, you will find your happiness without any problem. Ah yes, another thing, multitasking is also very practical. By holding down an application, you can activate floating window mode and therefore move this application wherever you want on the tablet screen. But we can also separate the display into two applications and resize the space we will allocate to them . We can also find in multitasking the application associations that we have made to return to this layout in one click. And they are even present in the lower shortcut bar. So you will be able to see, instead of having an application icon, you will have an icon coupled in two with two applications. And it's frankly a significant time saver. Surprisingly, I didn't expect much from the sound on a tablet for less than €200 and I I quite enjoyed it. The 4 speakers and Dolby Atmos compatibility offer a fairly impressive result for video playback in relation to the price of the device. Honestly, watching movies and series on this Redmi Pad SE without headphones, it's very pleasant and immersive. It pleasantly surprised me, I honestly wasn't expecting that much. The sound part, often technological devices, is not the most worked part unfortunately. If you are interested in this Redmi Pad SE, remember to go through the links in the description of the video. I repeat it every time, but it doesn't cost you more. And I receive a small commission which allows me to keep the channel alive. The cheapest model, i.e. the 4 GB of RAM, 128 GB storage, can be found from €190 on online sales sites. Unsurprisingly, the photo and video quality of this Redmi Pad SE is excellent. No, I'm kidding, not just tablets do not generally shine in this area, unlike smartphones, but what's more here, we are on an entry-level tablet. The rear camera is 8 megapixels with f2.0 aperture. We can take decent photos in very good lighting conditions, but that's it. It could ultimately help to make a video in 1080p 30 frames per second maximum, but we be okay only if you don't have anything else with you, if you don't have your smartphone or something, and you really want to show someone something, but no more. On the front, we have a 5 megapixel camera module with f2.2 aperture. It's not good quality either, but it will be enough for making video calls. The Redmi Pad SE is not a gaming tablet. There you go, that's all said, let's move on. No, the real question is, even if it's not a tablet made for gaming, does it still allow you to play games? And gourmet games. Yes and yes, but with concessions of course, don't mess around. If you want to play a game of Genshin Impact or PUBG, nothing will stop you, you do what you want, you download it from the Play Store and play. Of course, there will be concessions at the graphics level and at the level of some slight slowdowns, but for example on PUBG, I had smooth graphics mode with high frame rate and it was running well, very correctly. It's not an exceptional experience, it's not designed for, but we have a processor not very greedy which does not heat too much, not excessively. I want to say, it's okay. The 10 -watt charger can fully recharge the 8000 mAh battery in two hours. It's a bit long, it's even quite long, but for a tablet, we're generally less eye-catching than a smartphone. We generally don't need to take it before going out, it's more of a use for the House. On the other hand, the autonomy is good. We will be able to watch videos, films, series for 13-14 hours maximum. That's very correct. There is plenty to do. The Battery Life test on PCMark gave me a score of 20:46, screen time on in mixed use, web browsing, photo and video editing, word processing, data manipulation, etc. Which means that in normal use, with periods where you will not touch your tablet, you can go way beyond that. On this tablet, we unfortunately do not have a physical keyboard connector. So if you need to use a keyboard, you will need to buy a Bluetooth one. It's a shame, but at the same time, it's normal. On an entry-level tablet, there aren't that many people who use a keyboard . And that helps limit costs and keep the price low. In the end, this Redmi Pad SE fulfills its contract perfectly, and even more. If you need a tablet to read your emails, to surf the Internet, wander around on social networks, because yes, we wander around on social networks, like we surf the Internet, or even watch films and series legally, while having a small budget, you can go there without problem. There is no real flaw that seemed prohibitive to me, apart from the photo and video quality , but it is on a large part of the shelves. Even much more expensive tablets aren't great in this area. In the end, you understand, I appreciated this Redmi Pad SE. But the question is you, what do you think? And do you need a tablet? If you want to support me, don't forget the big thumbs up. If you have time to leave a little comment, it's good for SEO. And if you liked the video, don't hesitate to share it with as many people as possible. It was Olympics for Kulture ChroniK. Ciao, ciao!