okay so I've made a short on this and I've made videos about these Monster tablets in the past and every single time people get really into them and I'm really into them but the question that always keeps coming up every time is are these actually iPad Killers like is an iPad killer a real thing so let's talk about it this is the newest highest end Android Tablet from Samsung the Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra and it's even more ridiculous than the previous year's already crazy Ultra and I love it so I've already made a video on the tab S7 plus and then last year the tab S8 Ultra if you haven't already seen that I'll link it below that was last year's version and so now just like the rest of Samsung's recent announcements this new one mostly looks the same as last year's version but all the changes they've made are in the same direction just making it even more capable so you've got this gigantic 14.6 inch tablet that I mean it feels like I'm holding a small TV in my hands it somehow also razor thin with a huge battery inside and it actually doesn't snap in half despite looking like it probably should be susceptible to that but hey watch The X video for yourself if you don't believe me it survives better than a lot of other devices have this year though a new Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy inside plus a new Vapor chamber cooling system under the hood so there's going to be an even higher ceiling for performance for everything it's already good at we've seen this thing do multitasking well for years and be quick to scroll around and open and close apps with normal usage and now it'll do better at gaming and video editing and potentially also last a bit longer on that same 11 200 milliamp hour battery that's bigger than any battery that's ever been in an iPad this year the quad speaker setup is also now made up of 20 larger speakers which is a pretty big jump and I'm not ready to call these the best sounding speakers in any tablet quite yet that's still that goes to the iPad Pro still but these sure do get really loud with very little Distortion and you can flip on Dolby Atmos audio if you want some pretty impressive surround sound effects for music or videos or games and then this entire tablet is now ip68 water and dust resistant for the first time which means it's safe to not just splash it with water but literally completely submerge the whole thing underwater and it'll be totally fine which is crazy I don't know any situation where you would end up with a tablet underwater maybe you're recklessly watching Netflix next to a pool or something and then you drop it in I don't know that but if you did it will still be fine but then on top of that this S Pen also comes in the Box again and this thing also now has an ip68 rating of its own and it also now supports bi-directional charging but not the bi-directional charging you're probably thinking of when you can accept charge from the tablet but also charge other things no I just mean whatever Direction the pen faces when you magnetize it to the back of the tablet it will work and charge perfectly fine which is better than last year what I'm surprised doesn't come in the box is any charging brick I mean for a tablet that does everything this thing is actually capable of 45 watt charging which is really solid but the only way to get that is to buy a charger something like this anchor Prime desktop charger which I would totally get over any Samsung first party charger because it's gallium nitride it's smaller and then it also has multi-port charging up to 240 Watts Max output so you could literally charge a laptop full speed and the tablet full speed at the same time but then of course they also make a really convenient battery Bank option so this this is the anchor Prime 250 watt battery bank with two USBC ports and one USB a port it has a built-in inductive wireless charging pad so that can charge the battery Bank up to 100 watts and then there's an app connected to it that lets you configure the display and optimize charging or even play a sound to find it it's way more advanced than any charger that's ever come in any Samsung bucks so shout out to anchor for sponsoring this video and I'll put a link in the description for you to check this one out right below that like button but the point is I mean you've seen all the specs now they're all huge numbers it's a 14 and a half inch screen in my hands it's 120 hertz it's an 11 200 milliamp hour battery it's quad speakers it's the minimum 12 gigs of RAM it's a terabyte of internal storage with up to another terabyte of micro SD card storage all these numbers are great but it's actually using this tablet and actually holding it it's it's hard to describe it to you but it's even more hilariously fun so I'm personally partial to like media idea consumption on devices like this like I would just want to watch YouTube videos on a gigantic screen take them with me download them offline watch them on flights with my free time like it's already amazing for that and honestly I think that's what most people do on tablets a lot of the time but of course for all the additional stuff that tablet power users are going to be doing there is just so much more that this thing is capable of basically it's at the Forefront of tablets there's all of Samsung's multi-window multitasking features and pop-up windows on that 16x10 aspect ratio display all of the stylus features which if you want to use a stylus on a tablet it feels like Samsung and Apple are really the only ones taking it seriously but you know I'm using it to sign documents every once in a while but there are some people whose entire workflows go through this thing and then you can't forget about decks there's a whole clever keyboard folio case that I didn't even have here for this one but I had it for the S8 Ultra and that adds a whole nother Dimension and Dex mode has been super used useful while giving you that desktop experience with independent windows and you can plug it into an even larger display if you want to it's more powerful than anything Apple has even tried to do on the iPad and all of that isn't even mentioning that this is probably the biggest camera viewfinder anyone has ever used Plus on the front that little Notch up there I've mentioned this before but there's two selfie cameras a front-facing normal camera and an ultra wide that can do auto framing in videos or in video calls similar to what Apple calls Center Stage except these cameras are actually in the right place on the long side of the tablet so all that being said can this be an iPad killer that's the question we keep asking and it's a good it's a real question like this is clearly competing against the iPad Pro the biggest baddest iPad Pro but it's going to have a lot of things a lot of features a lot of numbers to one-up the iPad Pro right it's got a bigger screen it's got bigger speakers it's got external expandable storage it's got the fingerprint reader that the iPad Pro doesn't have and all of that costs a hundred dollars more than the equivalent iPad Pro this reminds me of the conversation we've had about Sony phones like in the world of Android phones Sony is out here making incredibly well-equipped super high-end phones with a ton of Enthusiast features and expandable memory and manual controls that the competition like just straight up doesn't offer and that's only really at the expense of a little bit of automatic mode usability and price like they just they're expensive they cost more and while it's really easy to point out all the obvious benefits and advantages to all these extra features and these cool things that it does it turns out that the number of people who will actually take advantage of these features is Tiny and I mean they're everywhere on YouTube but when it comes to actually voting with their wallets most people end up just going with the sort of more standard one and I feel like there is a similar phenomenon Happening Here for whatever reason videos about these tablets do numbers they're they're going crazy like people love to see these on video and I like talking about them but then when it comes to actually buying them people uh the the ecosystem effect is way stronger than any uh YouTube comments would suggest people love flocking to the iPad for iMessage and FaceTime and all these other things but to keep it even more simple I like I have this analogy that I really like even better people like bigger screens as long as it doesn't sacrifice too much in the other areas of the device so take the MacBook Air for example that 13-inch MacBook Air was one of the best selling laptops for years it was Apple's number one best-selling laptop for a long time and people wanted a bigger screen but the only way that they could get a bigger screen and still buy an Apple product was to move all the way up to the 16-inch MacBook Pro which was just dramatically more expensive I mean it was Overkill most people did not need that much computer and so people would actually start to drift away and go buy a different slightly bigger screened laptop from some other company so much so that Apple finally this year decided to introduce a larger 15-inch MacBook Air and it turned out that's exactly what people wanted they just want the bigger screen on the other end of this apple tried introducing a mini iPhone for two whole years which you would think is a brilliant idea if you only read YouTube comments but again it turns out most people want the bigger screen and so that ended up not selling enough it got discontinued and today we have a plus phone instead so this is a bigger screen tablet than the iPad Pro which is why it's so amazing and impressive to hold and look at but it's also a very different tablet from the iPad Pro it's 100 bucks more but it's an Android tablet it has a whole different feature set and for a lot of people that's too much sacrifice and a lot of people will continue to just get iPads but for those who are not looped into the ecosystem and who don't depend on these features this is a hell of a tablet thanks for watching catch you in the next one peacehey everyone and welcome back to instant tech insights in this video we're not just talking about routers and internet speeds we're also diving into the exciting world of tablets and not just any tablet we're taking a closer look at the Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 a device that's making waves in the market if you're enjoying our content don't forget to hit that like button and subscribe to instant tech insights for more tech reviews and news your support helps us grow and keeps you updated with the latest in Tech the Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 is a versatile tablet designed for all kinds of users whether you're into streaming gaming or just need a reliable device for everyday tasks this tablet has got you covered so what sets it apart in the competitive tablet Market we'll delve into that and much more stay tuned let's Dive Into the Heart of the Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 a gadget that's turning heads in the tablet Market Market first off the screen it's a spacious 11 in perfect for immersive viewing whether you're watching movies playing games or scrolling through content this screen isn't just big it's smart too with an Adaptive refresh rate that makes everything looks super smooth under the hood the Galaxy Tab A9 is just as impressive it comes with up to 128 GB of built-in storage which means plenty of space for your apps photos and files plus if you need more there's support for a Micro SD card of up to 1 tbte now let's talk about its design it's Sleek available in a range of colors to suit your style and built to be both slim and durable running on Android this tablet ensures wide app compatibility and a userfriendly experience so whether you're a hardcore gamer or a casual browser the Galaxy Tab A9 has got something for everyone Switching gears to the the design and construction of the Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 it's a Marvel of modern tablet engineering the body is crafted from high quality materials giving it a premium feel and a Sleek look it's not just about Aesthetics this tablet is built to last with a durable design that can handle the hustle and bustle of daily use ergonomically the Galaxy Tab A9 is a joy to use for various activities whether you're curled up reading an ebook browsing the web or watching videos the tablet feels comfortable in your hands its lightweight design ensures that it's easy to hold for extended periods making it an ideal companion for all your needs from Leisure to productivity now let's turn our attention to the performance and Hardware of the Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 at its core is an upgraded chipset engineered to deliver smooth efficient performance across a wide range of tasks whether it's for work play or anything in between this tablet is more than capable of keeping up with your demands battery life is a critical aspect of any portable device and the Galaxy Tab A9 doesn't disappoint it features a long- lasting battery ensuring that you can enjoy hours of use without the need for frequent recharging for audio and video quality the tablet is a real treat with a screen that supports adaptive refresh rates and quad speakers powered by Dolby Atmos it offers a truly commers of experience making it perfect for entertainment and gaming stepping into the realm of user experience in software the Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 shines with its intuitive interface and robust software personalizations the user interface is Sleek and userfriendly making navigation a breeze personalization options are abundant allowing users to tailor their experience to their liking doc Samsung's unique features like Samsung Dex enhance the tablet's utility enabling a desktop-like experience when you need it this feature is particularly useful for those who want to switch between a casual tablet and a more productive workspace the Galaxy Tab a 9 software ecosystem is designed to cater to a diverse range of needs from entertainment to productivity ensuring a versatile and enriching user experience moving on to the Samsung Galaxy Tab ain's camera capabilities it's equipped with both front and rear cameras that deliver quality images and videos the tablet is designed to provide a smooth video conferencing experience ensuring you look clear and professional in your virtual meetings it's also great for capturing those special moments with its easy to ous camera interface when it comes to multimedia the Galaxy Tab A9 excels in both audio and video quality the tablet is perfect for a range of entertainment options from streaming your favorite shows to playing the latest games the audio output supported by highquality speakers ensures a rich sound experience that complements the visual prowess of its display all in all the Galaxy Tab A9 offers a comprehensive multimedia package that's hard to beat now let's explore the connectivity options and accessory compatibility of the Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 for staying connected this tablet offers a variety of options it supports Wi-Fi for fast internet access Bluetooth for wireless connectivity with other devices and there's also an option for 5G connectivity ensuring rapid downloading and streaming when you're on the go these features make the Galaxy Tab a nine of versatile choice for both home and mobile us e i in terms of accessories the Galaxy Tab A9 is compatible with a range of peripherals that enhance its functionality you can pair it with a stylus for precise input which is great for drawing or taking notes additionally it supports various keyboard options turning the tablet into a mini workstation perfect for those times when you need a more traditional typing experience the tablet's flexibility in connecting with these accessories adds to its appeal as a device suitable for both entertainment and productivity the Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 boasts a larger 11in display compared to the 10.36 in screen of the Oppo pad air providing a more expansive viewing experience however the Oppo pad air edges out with a slightly higher screen resolution and pixel density both tablets run on Android but the Galaxy Tab A9 features the newer Android v13 whereas the pad air operates on Android V12 do performance wise the Galaxy Tab A9 is powered by an octacore processor similar to the pad air but with a slightly different configuration both have comparable storage capabilities with the Galaxy Tab A9 supporting expandable memory up to 1 tbte a bit more than the pad Air's 512 GB limit and terms of design both tablets have a slim profile at 6.9 mm thickness but the Galaxy Tab A9 is slightly heavier for battery capacity the Oppo pad air comes with a 7,100 Mah hour battery marginally larger than the Galaxy Tab a 9740 ma each tablet has its unique strengths the Galaxy Tab a 9 offers a larger display and the latest Android OS making it great for those who prefer a bigger screen and newer software the Oppo pad air on the other hand provides a higher resolution and pixel density which might appeal to users prioritizing display quality the Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 plus is now available for purchase in the United States offering an affordable yet featur option in the Android tablet Market the tablet is priced starting at $200 $20 for the entry-level version which features 4 GB Ram 64 GB storage and Wi-Fi only connectivity for those seeking 5G capabilities the 64 GB variant with 5G connectivity is priced at $270 available through carriers like AT&T T-Mobile US Cellular and Verizon a higher spec variant with 8 GB RAM and 128 GB storage is available at 200 $170 currently offered in the Wi-Fi only version in terms of value the Galaxy Tab A9 plus offers a compelling package with its large 11-in LCD screen High refresh rate and robust features like quad speakers tuned by AKG and Snapdragon 695 processor it also boasts a Micro SD card slot for expanded storage and a solid 7,040 Milah hour battery with its competitive pricing especially consider considering the range of features and capabilities it offers the Galaxy Tab A9 plus positions itself as an attractive choice for those seeking a balance between performance and affordability. as we wrap up our in-depth look at the Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 it's clear that this tablet is a strong contender in the competitive market it's an ideal choice for a wide range of users from those who need a device for everyday tasks to entertainment enthusiasts and even Gamers it's large 11in in display adaptive refresh rate and high quality quad speakers make it perfect for streaming and gaming the tablet's performance is bolstered by the upgraded chipset and Ample Storage with up to 128 GB built-in and support for a Micro SD card up to 1 tbte the Galaxy Tab A9 is not just powerful it's also designed to be Sleek durable and comfortable to use for extended periods however like any device it has its limitations while it offers a larger screen size compared to some of its competitors like the Oppo pad air it might fall short for those seeking the highest screen resolution or pixel density the tablet's weight might be a consideration for users who prioritize portability in terms of pricing starting at $220 the Galaxy Tab A9 provides good value especially considering its range of features this tablet is well suited for families students St and professionals looking for a versatile device that balances performance with affordability all right Tech enthusiasts that wraps up our comprehensive review of the Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 we've covered everything from its large display and Powerful performance to its Sleek design and userfriendly software now we'd love to hear from you what are your thoughts on the Galaxy Tab A9 do you think it's the right tablet for your needs drop your comments opinions and any questions you might have in the comment section below we're eager to see your perspectives and engage in a lively discussion don't forget to hit the like button if you found this review helpful your support is what keeps our Channel Growing and bringing you the latest in Tech also if you haven't already make sure to subscribe to instant tech insights and hit the notification Bell so you never miss out on our future Tech insights and reviews we have a lot more exciting content coming your way and we can't wait to share it with you thanks for watching and we'll see you in the next video- When Samsung released the Tab S9 FE and FE+, they made things really interesting. But at the same time, choosing which tablet to get might be more confusing, so let's break it down. To make things a little bit easier, let's put these tablets up into two categories: the fan edition models and the flagship models. And this makes sense because essentially the features are the same for every tablet in each category with a few exceptions. And here's a quick look at the starting prices. So starting out with the displays, both categories have an aspect ratio of 16:10, which makes them great for watching content. But in terms of specs, that's pretty much where the similarities end. The FE models have IPS/LCD displays, which offer a slower 90 hertz adaptive refresh rate with a good resolution and pixel density. All three flagship models have Dynamic AMOLED 2X displays, which offer a faster 120 hertz adaptive refresh rate, a higher resolution when comparing the same display sizes so you can see more content without having to scroll, and we're also getting a higher pixel density when comparing the same display sizes, which gives us a sharper image. And in terms of image quality, the FE displays are actually quite good, and I'm super happy with the image quality for watching video and for playing games. I also love that we're getting 90 hertz versus the 60 hertz we got on the Tab S7 FE, which was the last fan edition model. But there's no question that the dynamic AMOLED display on the flagship models is the better display. Colors seem to just pop right off the screen. We're getting outstanding blacks, better contrast, and the UI animations look smoother. Overall, the advantage in terms of image quality clearly goes to the flagship models. But keep in mind the cost because the flagship displays are not twice as good as the fan edition ones. Now all five tablets have a similar design with a full aluminum frame and back, but when comparing the tablets of the same size, the flagship models are thinner. Now, I love that Samsung was able to bring IP68 rating down to the FE version. This gives all the tablets protection from water and dust. Now, this is really nice if you take your tablet with you when you travel or if you take it to school with you every day. But it's also a super nice feature when you're using it around the house and you have a dog with a somewhat aggressive tail. Now, all five tablets offer face recognition for biometric authentication and a more secure fingerprint sensor. Now with the flagship models, we're getting an under display sensor, and with the FE models, it's integrated into the power button. Now, both sensors have worked really great for me, and they're super responsive and accurate. But I prefer the under display version because it's more natural to how I hold the tablet. All five tablets also have a micro SD card slot, so you can upgrade the internal storage by up to one terabyte. And you can use that storage for photos, for videos, for files, and for most apps. Now, continuing to look around the edges, we're getting four AKG-tuned speakers on the flagship models versus two on the FE. And the flagship models absolutely have a more full sound. The audio seems warmer, it has more presence to it, which actually makes them a better choice if you want to use the speakers on your tablet. Now, another factor to consider is the ability to expand the functionality of each tablet by adding a keyboard case and a stylus. Now since the form factor of the flagship and the FE models is so similar, the Tab S9 and FE are compatible with the same two versions of the book cover keyboards from Samsung. And the same is true for the FE+ and the Tab S9+. And then, of course, you can always use an external Bluetooth keyboard with all of these tablets. All five tablets also come with a free S pen, which can be stored on the side or on the back of the tablet. But only the flagship models come with a Bluetooth enabled S pen, which offers some wireless functionality for things like camera control and media playback. Now in terms of the actual writing experience, it's virtually identical and no charges required in order to write and draw. It's only needed for the Bluetooth functionality with the flagship models. Now, one of the areas where Samsung had to create some differentiation is with processing power, and there are several critical implications here. So the flagship models come with the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip and the FE models come with the Exynos 1380, so let's quickly look at the single and multi-core performance. And here we can see that the Snapdragon chip definitely pulls ahead. We also see it's scored considerably higher in GPU performance. Now, of course, these are just benchmark scores. So what kind of impact is this gonna have during typical real life use? Well, if you're just surfing the web, watching video, or going on social media, you're definitely gonna be able to do that with any of these tablets. But the flagship models definitely feel snappier and more responsive. And even if you're just navigating around the UI and opening and closing apps, you're going to notice the difference. And I would expect the flagship models to continue and perform better for longer because of the additional headroom in terms of performance. Now, of course, for more demanding things, like photo and video editing, the flagship models are a more capable option, but always keep in mind what you actually plan on doing because you are paying quite a bit more. Now, another area where I definitely noticed a meaningful difference is with gaming. I play a lot on my tablets, and I was really curious to see how these processors would match up. So I was able to play my usual games like PUBG, Genshin Impact, Asphalt, and then, of course, some less demanding games. But there was a very obvious difference in both processing power and GPU performance, which did have an impact on my overall experience with more resource intensive games. Now using PUBG as an example, gameplay was smoother and more responsive on the flagship models, and I could play with graphics set to smooth and frame rate set to 90 FPS. I could also set graphics anywhere from balanced to HDR and frame rate set to extreme or Ultra HD for graphics and Ultra for frame rate. With the FE models, I was limited to high frame rate, weather graphics were set to smooth, balanced, or HD, and that was as good as it got. So I definitely didn't get to use the 90 FPS. Now playing Genshin Impact, I had a very similar experience where it's playable on all five tablets, but it performed better on the flagship models, again, because of the more capable processor and the additional RAM, which I'll discuss in a minute. So if gaming is a priority for you now, then looking ahead, we know that game developers are always going to push the CPU and GPU, and games are going to evolve and start to demand more and more resources. When I look to keep a device for at least four to five years or even longer, I'm always going to opt for the tablet that has better CPU and GPU performance than what I need right now. And that way it will continue to perform better in the future. Now if you want to stream and play Xbox games with the Xbox Game Pass app, you can pair an Xbox controller with all five tablets and then have extremely smooth gameplay as long as you have a reliable internet connection. In terms of storage, the Tab S9 FE, the Tab S9, and the Tab S9 FE+ start out with 128 gigabytes. Then, the Tab S9+ and the Tab S9 Ultra start out with 256. So that's something that you want to keep in mind if you play a lot of games and you need more storage. Now looking at the camera systems, we're getting different setups and features depending on which model and category you go with. But in terms of the front facing camera, all three flagships have the same setup, and then the two FE models have the same setup. And here's a quick sample. This is a camera and microphone test of the Tab S9 and the Tab S9 FE. This should give you a pretty good idea of the type of image quality that you're going to get and the type of audio quality that you should expect for video calls. Here's a camera and microphone test of the Tab S9+ and the Tab S9 FE+. This should give you a pretty good idea of the type of image quality that you're going to get and the type of audio quality that you should expect. Now, the Tab S9+ looks a little overexposed to me. All I did was press record, I didn't change any of the settings. The color is also definitely different on the FE+. It seems like a much warmer image and probably a better exposure, which is really interesting. Now, all five tablets run the latest Android and One UI, so you're getting all of the latest features, like three tiled apps, pop-up windows, and then, of course, decks, which is awesome. So essentially, it reboots the tablet and gives you an operating system that's very similar to a desktop OS. You're getting a task bar, a desktop with icons, multiple windows, you can snap windows, and you can use a keyboard case to transform your tablet into more of a laptop replacement. Now if you use decks, you can connect a keyboard and mouse to all five tablets. But one massive difference is that you can only connect an external display and run a dual display setup with the flagship models. The FE models don't have this ability. You can, however, use each of the five tablets as an additional display for your laptop or desktop with Samsung's Second Screen. And this is a super handy feature for me both in the office and when I travel. Now as far as OS and security updates, Samsung promised four years of OS updates and five years of security updates, which is nice. And again, keep in mind the difference in performance if you plan on keeping your tablet for a while. Now, in terms of battery life, we're getting larger battery sizes as we go up in tablet size. And you can check out this video if you wanna see a detailed battery drain test. Now, all five tablets offer 45 watts, super fast charging, but none of them ship with a charging adapter. So that's something you'll need to get separately. Now when we look at the configuration options, it's important that we look both at the RAM and storage options in the base and upgraded models. And remember that while only the Tab S9 Ultra is offered with one terabyte, you can expand the internal storage on all five tablets with a micro SD card. And there's no question that the flagship models are more capable. They have better display, a much more powerful chip with better CPU and GPU performance, better speakers, a better camera system, and a more capable S pen. But if you're on a budget and you don't need the best, the FE models are an outstanding value, and you're still getting a very good display, IP68 rating, a free S pen, and a lot of the same features for significantly less money. Now, you should check out the battery drain test. You know what I always say. Buy it nice or buy it twice. Good luck and see you soon.- Okay, so you've got about 300 bucks, you are looking for a new tablet, and you're asking yourself, "Which one is actually better, the Samsung Galaxy Tab A8 or the entry-level iPad 9?" When we look at the design, we immediately see some important differences. The iPad 9 still has the older style design with larger bezels on the top and the bottom and a Home button. In contrast, the Tab 8 has a more modern design with smaller bezels all the way around, which give it a cleaner look. It also means that although both tablets are about the same size, we're getting a larger 10.5-inch display on the Tab A8 versus 10.2 inches on the iPad 9. Now, looking around the edges, both tablets have power buttons, volume controls, and a 3.5 millimeter headphone jack, which I'll come back to later on. For charging and accessories, the iPad 9 still uses the older Lightning port while the Tab A8 uses a USB-C port. Now, personally, I'm stuck with both types of cables because my iPhone, my 3rd Generation AirPods, and even my AirPods Max still use a Lightning cable. And at the same time, my Fold 3, all my Galaxy Tablets, my Buds Live, my Galaxy Book 360, and my MacBooks all use USB-C. So I'm gonna have both types of cables all over the house regardless. So for me, it doesn't really make a difference. But if all your other devices use USB-C, keep in mind that you'll need a dedicated cable for the iPad 9. And in general, USB-C is a more powerful and more versatile port. Now, another advantage of the Tab A8 is that it has a microSD card slot, which allows you to expand the internal storage by up to one terabyte. Now, this is great if you wanna keep a ton of photo and video files on your tablet, but keep in mind that this storage is essentially only used for files and not for apps. It's still a factor because the files that you store on the microSD card aren't taking up any of your internal storage, whereas on the iPad 9, everything including photos and video has to be stored locally. Finally, the Tab A8 has 4 speakers versus only 2 on the iPad 9. And there are some significant implications to this, which I'll cover in the gaming section. All around, when it comes to design, I'm going to give the edge to the Tab A8. And as far as portability, I'm gonna call it a tie. And another important difference is biometric authentication. So the iPad 9 uses Touch ID with the Home button while the Tab A8 uses face recognition with the front-facing camera. I'm not gonna say that one is definitively better than the other because it comes down to how you use your tablet. And ultimately, if I had my choice, I'd want both options like we have with the Tab S7. Now, probably one of the most important aspects of any tablet is the display. There are a few things that we wanna talk about, and let's also talk about how specs impact real-life use. With the Tab A8, we're getting a 10.5-inch display with a resolution of 1920 x 1200, a 16:10 aspect ratio, and a pixel density of 216 pixels per inch. The iPad 9 has a smaller display at 10.2 inches but a higher resolution of 2160 x 1620, an aspect ratio of 4:3, and a higher pixel density of 265 PPI. And the Tab A8 gives you a slightly wider display when you're watching content. And the aspect ratio is closer to the 16:9 that you get from a lot of videos, so there are smaller black bars on the top and the bottom. The iPad 9's higher resolution means that you can fit more information on the display at once. So for example, if you're looking at a webpage, you'll see more of the content without having to scroll. Additionally, the aspect ratio of 4:3 is very useful when you're taking notes or drawing with the Apple Pencil in Portrait Mode because we're getting a wider canvas. The iPad 9 also has a fingerprint-resistant coating, which makes a noticeable difference. It's not that it won't pick up fingerprints at all, but it definitely stays cleaner than the Tab A8. And I find myself not having to clean it as often with a microfiber cloth. Now, both are 60 hertz displays, but there are fundamental differences in the types of display that each tablet has. The iPad 9 does not have a fully laminated display, meaning that there is an air gap. On the Tab A8, the display, the touch layer, and the cover glass are fused into a single display assembly. For things like gaming, surfing the web, using various productivity apps, or watching video, you're unlikely to notice this difference. But in general, I prefer a fully laminated display because the image looks like it's painted right on top of the glass. A fully laminated display is typically also better when you're using a stylus because the tip of the pencil looks like it's touching the content that's being created. Whereas on the iPad 9, you will see a bit of separation. Now, in this particular case, while the iPad 9 is compatible with the 1st Generation Apple Pencil, the Tab A8 isn't compatible at all with Samsung's S Pen. So you can't use the Bluetooth-enabled S Pen that you get with a Tab S7 or S7 Plus or even the basic S Pen that you get with a Tab S7 FE. Now, both displays work just fine for everything that I do from watching content to playing games, surfing the web, and using various apps. If the larger black bars when watching video are an issue for you, then the Tab A8 is a better fit. Personally, they don't bother me at all. And for everyday use, I prefer the sharper and higher resolution display on the iPad 9, as well as the fingerprint-resistant coating, the 4:3 aspect ratio, and the Apple Pencil compatibility for note-taking, sketching, and for marking up and signing documents. If you're looking for more of a laptop-like experience, then you may wanna pick up a keyboard case. Now, the iPad 9 has a ton of excellent options from Apple and from third-party providers. I have not been able to find a dedicated keyboard case from Samsung for the Tab A8, but I did find this other option that has a removable keyboard. And I'll share a link in the description. It's actually kind of neat because you can use the same case with and without the keyboard. When we look at processing power, we've got benchmarks, and then we have real-life use. For single-core performance, the Tab A8 score 364 versus 1330 on the iPad 9. And for multi-core performance, we're looking at 1250 versus 3376. So we're getting substantially better performance on the iPad 9 for pretty much any type of task. But the real question is, does this have any kind of real-life implications for the majority of users? And in this case, the answer is a resounding yes. Like whether you're opening and closing apps, switching between opened apps or between opened tabs in your browser, or just navigating around the UI, the iPad 9 is extremely responsive. In comparison, the Tab A8 feels sluggish, laggy, and it feels underpowered for a current device. Now, that's not to say that you can't perform the same tasks, it's just that the user experience is not as smooth. And sometimes you're not sure if the Tab A8 is lagging or if a tap or a swipe wasn't registered. I'll get to how this impacts the gaming experience in just a moment. But first, let's talk about the camera and speakers. Now, this is another area where it's a split decision. Looking at the rear-facing cameras, both are eight megapixels, but the iPad 9 camera is simply better. It's more color accurate. It has better dynamic range. And it's more versatile in terms of features, frame rates, and image stabilization. I very rarely use the rear-facing cameras on my tablets because the ones on my phones are so much better. So for me, the more important camera on a tablet is the front-facing one, which I use for video calls. Again, the iPad 9 comes out ahead with a 12 megapixel camera versus 5 megapixels on the Tab A8. It's also an Ultra Wide camera with Center Stage, which is a feature that uses artificial intelligence to identify then track a subject as it moves through the frame. It can then crop the image to give the impression that the camera is following the subject. So in both cases, if you're looking for the better camera system, that's gonna be the iPad 9. When we get to the speakers, things shift in favor of the Tab A8. The iPad 9 only has speakers on the bottom. So when you're holding it in Landscape Mode, the audio only comes out to one side. It actually does a pretty good job at projecting the sound, but it can't compete with the Tab A8. The four-speaker Dolby Atmos system has better audio quality. It offers more immersive and fuller stereo sound. And it's better for games, where you need to detect which direction footsteps or other sounds come from. Before we get to battery life and gaming, let's talk about multitasking apps and operating system support. So for multitasking, I'm going to give the edge to the iPad 9. Both tablets have similar features, but again, the iPad 9 feels more responsive. And working with multiple apps feels seamless. The iPad 9 can also be used as an additional display for your Mac, your iMac, or your MacBook with a feature called Sidecar. Now, Samsung has a similar feature called Second Screen, but it's not available on the Tab A8. Now, looking at the app selections, both the Google Play Store and the Apple App Store are full of choices for pretty much everything you wanna do. There are some specific popular creative apps like LumaFusion, Procreate and Affinity Photo that are only available on the iPad. LumaFusion did announce that they'll be releasing an Android version, so that's good news. As far as operating system support, Samsung promises three generations of OS updates. Now in contrast, Apple provides much longer support. And just as an example, my iPad Air 2, which I got eight years ago, is still supported by iPadOS 15. And moving on to battery life, both tablets have pretty good performance. And for the most part, I can get through an entire day with both. Of course, I can't sit down and play eight hours straight of "PUBG" without having to recharge either one of them. But for the most part, for what I do every day, I get through a full day. The iPad 9 probably does get the edge here, and I'm currently working on a more detailed test. When it comes to gaming, I'm able to play all of my games on both tablets. Less-demanding games are going to pretty much play on any current tablet, so that's not really an issue. But even more demanding games like "PUBG" and "COD Mobile" ran smoothly on both. For "PUBG," on the Tab A8, I was able to set graphics to smooth or balanced, and then the frame rate to ultra. I could also set the graphics to HD, and then the frame rate to high. With the iPad 9, I could go all the way up to 90 frames per second with the graphic set to smooth. I could go up to extreme frame rate with balanced graphics or all the way up to ultra HD with frame rate set to ultra. Now, switching to "COD Mobile," the Tab A8 tops out at medium graphic quality and high frame rate while the iPad 9 can go to very high graphic quality and max frame rate or very high graphic quality and very high frame rate. So in both games, the iPad 9 has the better options. Now, we talked a little bit about the audio early on in the video. But if you plan on using your speakers to play games where you need directional sound, the Tab A8 will perform better. Now, both tablets have a 3.5 millimeter headphone jack, which gives you the option of using a wired gaming headset for perfect lag-free audio. It also means that you can charge the tablet and use the wired headset at the same time without needing any type of adapter or a splitter. Both tablets also worked great with an Xbox controller and Xbox Game Pass. And I was able to play all of my favorite games as long as I had a fast and stable internet connection. I'm going to give the slight edge to the iPad 9 because in my opinion, it has a better display, and I had less issues with the controller disconnecting. Now, I wanna talk about the different configurations and also address resale value. I'll be using the prices from the Samsung and Apple Stores, but you can usually find better prices by using the links in the description. The Tab A8 is available with 32 gigabytes of storage and 3 gigs of RAM for 230 bucks, then 64 gigabytes for $280, and 128 gigabytes of storage for $330. And both of those models come with four gigabytes of RAM. The iPad 9 comes with either 64 gigabytes for 329 or 256 for 459. And both of them come with three gigabytes of RAM. So both tablets are also available on cellular models. And remember that the Tab A8 has a microSD card slot. It can be used to expand the internal storage and that this storage will be used for files and not for apps. Now, one thing to keep in mind, is that at least in the US, the iPads hold their resale value for longer. And at the same time, Samsung has some really great trade-in options. And I'd love to know what the situation is where you live. So which one of these tablets is a better option for you? So the Tab A8 starts at $230 for 32 gigabytes of internal storage. Although I would really only recommend that to someone who's just using it to stream content, to surf the web, work with some basic apps, and then play a few small games. If we're comparing the $330 models, then the Tab A8 comes with 120 gigs of internal storage, plus the microSD card slot, which can expand the internal storage by up to one terabyte. It has a more modern design, facial recognition, a nice display, and a better speaker system. The iPad 9 comes with 64 gigabytes of internal storage. It can be upgraded to 256 for an additional $130, has a better display, Touch ID, Apple Pencil support, a better camera system. It's noticeably more powerful and more responsive, and it has better graphic performance for gaming. Now, you should see how the iPad 9 compares with the Galaxy Tab S7 FE. Hopefully, this video was helpful. Click on my face to subscribe. You know what I always say, buy it nice or buy it twice. Good luck and see you soon.- Okay, so you're thinking of buying a Galaxy Tab S9 series tablet and you realize that there are three great options, but Samsung actually did something this year to make the decision even harder. So let's talk about all the important differences. This way you can have all the information that you need to choose the right Tab S9 series tablet for you. Starting out, we have the Tab S9 which got the most significant changes in this year's lineup. It retails for 799, and right now, using the links in the description, you can actually double the storage and get 50% more RAM for the same price, but we'll come back to that later. So over the past few years, Samsung didn't give the best displays to the smallest versions, like the Tab S7 and the Tab S8. It was still a very nice display, but it was an LCD display. Now, this year, the Tab S9 got the same upgrade as its two bigger siblings, and now it's sporting an amazing dynamic AMOLED 2X display. It's an 11-inch 120 hertz display with a resolution of 1,600 by 2,560, a 16 by 10 aspect ratio, and 274 pixels per inch. The display gives you the choice between a static 60 hertz or adaptive 120 hertz where the tablet changes in real time based on what you're doing. And this way you can save on battery life when you're looking at static content and you can get smooth and responsive animations when you're interacting with a UI, playing games, or doing anything else where a faster refresh rate offers the optimal user experience. This display has noticeably darker black levels than the previous models. It has better color accuracy, better contrast, and reduced blue light emission. The Tab S9 comes in graphite or beige. And looking around the edges, we see four speaker grills with four AKG-tuned speakers. In terms of audio quality, they're quite good for this size tablet and they work well for watching content and for games that don't require you to quickly identify where sounds are coming from. Obviously, for those types of games, you're better off using headsets, and there's a speaker test of all three tablets later on in this video when I talk about the Tab S9 Ultra. Now back to the Tab S9, we're getting a USB-C for charging and connecting accessories, and there's a micro SD cart slot which allows you to expand the internal storage by up to one terabyte. Now, speaking of accessories, the Tab S9 comes with a Bluetooth-enabled S Pen. We're getting lower latency than last year's model, and it has bidirectional charging, so it doesn't matter which way you snap it to the back. Both the tablet and the S Pen have an IP68 rating, so you're getting protection from water and dust. And the Tab S9 is compatible with two keyboard cases from Samsung, the Book Cover Keyboard and the Book Cover Keyboard Slim. For biometric authentication, we got another upgrade from last year, and now we've got an outstanding under display fingerprint sensor to go along with facial recognition. This year, we also got a really impressive upgrade in performance with the new Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip, which has better single core performance in the last year's model and even greater improvement in multi-core and GPU performance. And the new Qualcomm chip also helps improve battery life. So on top of getting a larger battery this year at 8,400 milliampere-hour versus 8,000, we're also getting a more efficient chip. And I'm finishing up a detailed battery drain test of all three models. I'll also put the Tab S8 series test in the description if you want to check out those results. The Tab S9 gives us outstanding multitasking capabilities with three tiled apps at the same time, popup windows, and then of course DeX. If you're not familiar with it, DeX essentially reboots the tablet and gives you an operating system that's very similar to a desktop OS. You're getting a task bar, a desktop with icons, multiple windows. You can snap windows, and you can use a keyboard case to transform your tablet into more of a laptop replacement. You can also connect an external display keyboard and mouse and then run a super capable dual display setup. Now, one other great option is to use the Tab S9 as an additional display for your laptop or desktop with Samsung's Second Screen. This is a super handy feature when you travel. For cameras, we're getting a 13-megapixel front-facing camera and a 13-megapixel rear-facing camera. And for connectivity, we're getting Wi-Fi 6E compatibility just like with the two larger models. Looking at the configuration options, the 128-gigabyte model comes with eight gigs of RAM, and the 256-gigabyte model comes with 12 gigs of RAM. And remember that you can use the links in the description to get that upgrade for free, which is something that I would highly recommend doing. Ultimately, this is an extremely powerful and capable tablet at this price point. It's also a great option for someone who values portability, for users who prefer this size for gaming, or for users with smaller hands who find a smaller tablet easier to handle. Moving onto the Tab S9+, which starts out at $999. We're essentially getting the same design, but in a larger form factor. We're now getting the same type of display, dynamic AMOLED 2X, but it's larger at 12.4 inches. We're getting a higher resolution at 1,752 by 2,800, the same aspect ratio of 16 by 10, and a slightly lower pixel density, but not something that's really noticeable in terms of sharpness. Now, watching content on this display is fantastic. The image quality is outstanding. And since the aspect ratio is so close to the image that's being displayed, they're very small black bars at the top and the bottom. Also, if you fill to zoom, you're getting a very minor crop and then the image covers the entire display and looks great. Again, we're getting four AKG-tuned speakers, but these are warmer and fuller than the ones on the Tab S9. We're getting the same USB-C 3.2 ports, same Bluetooth 5.3, and Wi-Fi 6E compatibility, but a larger battery than the Tab S9 at 10,090 milliampere-hour. And like all three tablets, we're getting fast wire charging at 45 watts. Now, keep in mind that none of these tablets come with a charger, and I'll put some links in the description to a few of my favorites. We have the same options for biometric authentication with an under-display fingerprint sensor and facial recognition. We're getting the same S Pen with the same low latency, and the same IP68 protection for the S Pen and the tablet. Now, even though we have the same multitasking features, the larger display on the Tab S9+ gives the edge over the smaller Tab S9, and that's true for multiple tiled apps, for DeX, and when we're using it as an external display. When it comes to gaming, this model might be the sweet spot in terms of size. You're getting a larger display, but it's not too big, so it's great for handheld games and when you wanna connect to controller, and then stream some games using the Xbox Game Pass app. It has the same 13-megapixel front-facing camera as the Tab S9. But in addition to the 13-megapixel rear-facing camera, it also has an eight-megapixel ultra wide. We're getting the same powerful Qualcomm Snapdragon chip, but the Tab S9+ starts with 256 gigabytes and 12 gigs if RAM. And again, right now you can double the storage and get the 512 gigabyte model for the same price. The Tab S9+ is right there in the middle. It's giving you a noticeably larger display, a slightly better camera module, better speakers, a larger battery, and more storage. All right, so now we move on to the Tab S9 Ultra, which starts out at $1,199. It's the biggest tablet that Samsung makes, and it's what some people would say is inarguably the best display on any tablet. Now, whether you agree or not, if you've had a chance to use this tablet in real life, you have to admit that this display is spectacular. It's massive at 14.6 inches, still dynamic AMOLED 2X, 120 hertz. It has the highest resolution at 1,848 by 2,960 the same 16 by 10 aspect ratio, and a pixel density of 239. Now, surprisingly, the Tab S9 Ultra is the thinnest of all three tablets. It's not by a lot, but when you couple the larger size with the thinnest tablet, the user experience is that of using some sort of a futuristic display. I'll admit that it's probably not for everyone. It's definitely the least portable option, although, honestly, for me, I always carry it in my backpack. So it doesn't really impact me in that context, but there is one specific area where it's actually too big, and I'll get to that in just a minute. And we're getting all the same biometric features the same connectivity, same IP68 rating, but we do see another change when it comes to the camera module. So we have the 13-megapixel wide and the eight-megapixel ultra wide that we saw on the Tab S9+ on the back of the tablet. But on the front we're now getting two 13-megapixel cameras with a wide and an ultra wide. We're also getting a small notch which is something that I feel like I have to address. So I've heard both sides of the argument and my perspective in short is that it just doesn't matter. The display is so big and the notch is like this big. It's so tiny that I never really notice it. Now, of course, if it's something that you're gonna be fixated on, then it's not really the tablet for you and you should probably go with something like the Tab S9+. But it's just never really been an issue or in the way for any of the ways that I use this tablet. The Tab S9 Ultra is right now my favorite tablet to watch content on. The fact that I can get an image to be this big, this close to me is super impressive. We're also getting the best audio quality using the built-in speakers. And here's a quick sample from all three tablets. ("On & On")  Hold me close 'til I get up   Time is barely on our side   I don't wanna waste what's left   The storms we chase are leading us   And love is all we'll ever trust, yeah   No, I don't wanna waste what's left   And on and on we'll go   Through the wastelands, through the highways   'Til my shadow turns to sun rays   And on and on we'll go   Through the wastelands, through the highways   And on and on we'll go  - We're getting the largest battery of all three at 11,200 milliampere-hours, but of course it has to power the largest display, so I'm super excited to show you my battery test, and make sure that you're subscribed so you don't miss out. For multitasking DeX and second screen, this is the best option because it's such a useful size and you can have so much content on it and you can really improve your productivity. Now, the one area where this tablet was too big for me was when I'm playing "PUBG" and holding it in the air. It just feels cumbersome and my hands get pretty tired after a couple games. Now, if you play with a tablet flat on the desk or on a pillow, then that's another completely different story. And in that case, I love having the larger display because it's easier to see smaller movements. It's definitely the best tablet to use with a controller because it's like having a super light and portable TV with you anywhere you go. For configuration options, it starts out with 256 gigabytes of internal storage and 12 gigs of RAM. And again, you can double the storage right now for the same price. And if you go to one terabyte, you also get bumped up to 16 gigabytes of RAM. If you want the biggest tablet with the biggest display for watching content, if you multitask, use your tablet as a laptop replacement with DeX, or use it for second screen, and if you want the largest gaming display Samsung offers in a tablet, get yourself a Tab S9 Ultra. It's probably my favorite tablet in the lineup. And this display just puts a smile on my face every time I use it. And whenever a new person sees me using it for the first time, it's super obvious that there is something very special about this tablet. Now you should check out this comparison. Hopefully this video is helpful. Click on my face to subscribe. You know what I always say, buy it nice or buy it twice. Good luck and see you soon.hello everyone preview i order at shopee- All right, so here are my predictions for this battery test. I've got my coffee here, I've got all five Tab S9 tablets. They're all fully charged and ready to go. I matched the brightness levels on all five. I've got my time already, so let's get started. And the first thing we're gonna do is a couple of hours of watching YouTube. And what I like to do during these tests is run the tablets through the types of things that I do every day. So things like watching video, gaming, recording and rendering videos, going on social media, and then streaming. And this way, we can get a sense of how these tablets perform. Now, naturally, this is not a perfectly controlled scientific experiment, but it's designed to give you an idea of how these tablets compare. Now, when we look at the displays, we have essentially two categories. The two FE models have an IPS LCD display and the three flagship models have a dynamic AMOLED 2X display. And it'll be interesting to see if that has an impact on battery life. Now, looking at sizes, we've got the 10.9 inches on the Tab S9 FE, 11 inches on the Tab S9, 12.4 inches on the FE+ and S9+, and then the giant 14.6-inch display on the Ultra. There's also a difference in terms of refresh rate, with the FE models having 90 hertz adaptive refresh rate versus 120 hertz adaptive refresh rate on the flagship models. Now, checking in with the tablets after about an hour of use, the Tab S9 Ultra has a slight lead; followed by the Plus and the Tab S9, which are very close to each other; and then the FE+; and then last place, the FE. As far as processing power, the two FE models use the Exynos 1380 and the three flagship tablets use the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip. And in terms of overall performance, the Snapdragon chip outperforms the Exynos. Next, when I wanna have some fun and play something relaxing, "Alien Shooter" is a great option. Now, typically, I play games like "Genshin," "COD: Mobile," and "PUBG," so they're really two choices to make here. First, the Snapdragon chip is much more powerful. So I'm able to play games with higher graphics and FPS settings. And next, I always take into account the size of the device. For example, if you play PUBG, the Ultra is great because everything looks bigger and it's easier to see other players or someone trying to snipe you from behind a tree. And if you play with the tablet flat on a pillow, that works great, but if you're holding the tablet up the entire time, it gets heavy, and one of the smaller options might be more comfortable. When I want to connect an Xbox controller and then stream games with the Xbox Game Pass app, then again, I always grab the Ultra because the 14.6-inch display is absolutely amazing. Now, the two FE models have two AKG-tuned speakers versus four on the flagship model. And there's no question that the flagship models have better overall sound. Now, unfortunately, none of them come with a 3.5-millimeter headphone jack. So if you want to use wired headphones or a headset, you need to get an adapter or use a USB-C headset. And in terms of battery life, we begin to see just a bit more separation. Again, the Ultra is in first place, followed by the Plus and the Tab S9, then the FE+, and we can see that the FE continues to fall behind. Now, next, let's see what happens when we put these two chips to work and render some 4K video. We're over 2 1/2 hours into the test. I fired up PowerDirector and then rendered a 4K version of one of my videos. We can immediately see that the Snapdragon chip is more powerful, as it finishes the render much more quickly. I also noticed that the Tab S9+ seems to be consistently slower than the Tab S9 and the Tab S9 Ultra. I'm not really sure why, but that's really surprising. I had to run this render over and over again because I wanted to do it for a prolonged period of time. And that type of performance with the Tab S9+ compared to the other two was consistent. Now let's see what happens when we shoot 4K footage with the front-facing cameras. Now, the camera setups are not identical, but all are 12 megapixels and I'm shooting 30 minutes of 4K 30. Now, if you've watched any of my reviews, you know that I very rarely use the rear-facing cameras on my tablets because I'm always gonna have at least one of my phones with me and it's just so much more convenient to use. But, the cameras are actually quite good. After I finished recording, I decided to watch a little Netflix, and we can continue to see the flagship models separating from the FE models, and we can also see that I'm nowhere close to being able to go to bed. While Netflix is playing, let's talk a little bit more about these displays. So all five have an aspect ratio of 16x10, so there are very small black bars at the top and the bottom when you're playing movies. All five are fully laminated, so there's no air gap when you use the S Pen, and the tip of the stylus looks like it's touching the content that's being created. I also love the fact that Samsung includes an S Pen with all five tablets. This way, you don't need to spend any additional money in order to get the most out of your tablets. Now, the image quality is very good on all five displays. The video is sharp and crisp, but I do prefer the dynamic AMOLED 2X displayed on the flagship models because the blacks are darker, the image seems more vibrant, and then of course animations look smoother because of the faster refresh rate. But, to be totally fair, the FE displays look great, especially for the price, and it's really just when you have them side by side that you can really tell the difference. And if you made me choose my favorite display of all five, that's easily the Tab S9 Ultra. It's everything that I loved about the Tab S8 Ultra, just better. And this is probably my favorite tablet ever to watch content on. Now, in terms of resolution, we're looking at 2304x1440 on the FE, 2560x1600 on the Tab S9 and the FE+, 2800x1752 on the Plus, and 2960x1848 on the Ultra. Now, higher resolution doesn't really matter to me when I'm watching content, but it is important to me when I'm multitasking. So on top of being able to see more content without having to scroll on the Ultra, it's also the best option when I have two or three apps open side by side because I have so much more room to work with. All right, so we're now six hours into the test. The Tab S9 Ultra is in the lead, followed by the Tab S9+ and the Tab S9, which are neck and neck. Then, we have the FE+, which is well ahead of the FE. Next, I checked out some Instagram Reels. And starting with the unboxing of the S24 Ultra, and followed by some tips and tricks on the Galaxy Z Fold5, and then a quick click at the current state of my new gaming room. Now, there's a ton of gaming content coming on this channel, so if there's anything specific that you want me to cover, just let me know in the comment section. Now, as far as pricing, the Tab S9 FE starts at 450 bucks; the Tab S9, 800 bucks; the FE+ at 600; the Plus at $1,000; and then the Ultra starts at 1,200 bucks. But, we're getting different base internal storage and RAM options. Now, all five tablets come with a micro SD card slot so you can expand the internal storage without having to pay a premium. Now, back to the battery. Once again this year, I'm so impressed with the fact that this far into the test, we still have so much battery life left. The Ultra is maintaining the lead, followed closely by the Plus and the Tab S9, and then we see a gap before we get to the FE+ and then another gap before going to the FE. All right, so now we're more than seven hours into this test. I'm extremely tired. I definitely should have started this test earlier in the day. But as I do with the end of every test, I'm going to play YouTube videos until each and every one of these tablets runs out of battery. I've got a playlist of some of my absolute favorite creators, so let the games begin. And it's super interesting to see the difference between the Tab S9+ and the FE+ since they have the same-size battery. In terms of actual battery size, we're looking at 8,000 milliamp per hour on the FE, 8,400 on the Tab S9, 10,090 on the FE+ and the Plus, and then 11,200 on the Ultra. All five tablets are capable of 45 watt fast charging, but none of them comes with a power adapter, so I'd recommend that you pick up a high-capacity charger. Now, personally, I'm very rarely gonna use my tablet for this long without having access to a power outlet, but if I do, I always bring a power bank. And if you're looking for some great options, check out a few of my accessory videos. All right, so the Tab S9 was the first to run out at seven hours and 22 minutes into this test. Now, even though it comes in at fifth place, it's still very good battery life, especially because the vast majority of users aren't going to use that type of tablet to film and render 4K video during a typical day. In fourth place, we have the Tab S9 FE+, at eight hours and 21 minutes. Again, I was super interested in how it would compare with the Tab S9+ because they have the same size battery and the same size display, but they have different chips and different types of displays. And in third place, we have the Tab S9, at nine hours and 36 minutes, followed very closely by the Tab S9+ at nine hours and 39 minutes. It looks like Samsung did a really good job at matching the battery size to the display size since both of these have the same type of display and the same chip. And now, we have lone survivor, the Tab S9 Ultra. And I'm kind of surprised that it's going to win this contest, and I'm curious to see how far it can go. All right, so after nine hours and 44 minutes, the Tab S9 Ultra finally died, and it's only a few minutes longer than the Plus and the Tab S9. So did I get the order correctly? Not at all. I thought that the higher-end Snapdragon chip would use up more energy and that the dynamic AMOLED 2X display would do the same. I also thought that the Tab S9 would outlast the Plus, and I definitely didn't expect the Tab S9 Ultra to perform this well, especially after last year's test. I absolutely love what Samsung did with the Tab S9 lineup, bringing the higher-end display to all three flagship models and while still releasing two FE models for users who don't need the absolute best display or the most processing power. And if you're looking for more information about any of these tablets, I have dedicated reviews and comparisons. So check them out. My name is Sagi, click on my face to subscribe. You know what I always say, "Buy it nice or buy it twice." Good luck, and see you soon.