- I'm so excited at what Samsung did this year. After they didn't release an FE version of the Tab S8, they released not one but two FE versions of the newer Tab S9 lineup. So let's talk about how they compare, the interesting differences in battery life, whether either one of these is actually worth getting. And thank you to Best Buy for sponsoring a portion of this video. So overall, these are two very similar tablets, and one of the most important differences is size. The Tab S9 FE is smaller with a 10.9 inch display, the FE+ comes with a larger 12.4 inch display, so naturally, it's larger and heavier, but it's not any thicker. The two tablets have a similar design with a full aluminum frame and back, and I love that Samsung was able to bring IP68 rating down to the FE version, giving both tablets protection from water and dust. Now this is great if you take your tablet with you to work or when you travel, but it's also a super nice feature if you're using it around the house and you have a dog that likes to throw toys up in the air and also has a super aggressive tail. Now both tablets offer face recognition for biometric authentication, and a more secure fingerprint sensor, which is integrated into the power button. Now the fingerprint sensor on the FE models has worked great for me, but it's just a little less convenient than the under-display sensor on the flagship models. Both tablets also have a microSD card slot, so we can upgrade the internal storage by up to one terabyte, and we can use that storage for photos, for videos, for files, and for most apps. Now continuing to look around the edges, we're getting two AKG-tuned speakers on both tablets. And while the flagship models come with four speakers and sound fuller, the FE models are not too shabby if you're someone who actually uses the speakers on their tablet. Now going back to the display, both tablets have an IPS LCD display, which offers a 90 hertz adaptive refresh rate. The FE model has a low resolution but a slightly higher pixel density. And realistically, you aren't really going to notice that difference in terms of sharpness. Now I like the higher resolution and the larger display on the FE+ because I'm able to see more without having to scroll and it's better for multitasking. But of course, you're giving up on portability and there are also some implications in terms of gaming, which we'll talk about later on. Now both tablets have an aspect ratio of 16:10, so they're excellent for watching content. And in terms of image quality, both are very good for LCD displays. And if you're looking for an even better display, you can check out the Tab S8+ or the Tab S8 Ultra with their dynamic AMOLED display, or jump to the current flagship Tab S9 models with their dynamic AMOLED 2X displays. Now when it comes to gaming, it's important to consider the fact that these are not flagship models. So part of what you're giving up is performance. I was able to play my usual games like "Genshin," "Asphalt," "PUBG," and then, of course, some less demanding games, but there's an obvious difference in both processing power and GPU performance when compared with the flagship models, and it did have an impact on more resource-intensive games. The two FE models performed about the same, and we'll quickly go over benchmarks in the Performance section, but there's no question that Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip in the flagship models is more capable than the Exynos 1380 in the FE versions. Using "PUBG" as an example, with the FE model, I was limited to high frame rate whether Graphics were set to Smooth, Balanced, or HD, and that was as good as it got. So I definitely couldn't get to 90 FPS. With the flagship models, gameplay was smoother and more responsive, and I could play with Graphics set to Smooth and Frame Rate set to 90 FPS. I could also set Graphics anywhere from Balanced to HDR and Frame Rate to Extreme, or ultra HD for Graphics and Ultra for Frame Rate. While playing "Genshin Impact," I had a very similar experience where it was playable on the FE models, but it was much more fluid and less laggy on the flagship models. Again, because of the more capable processor and the additional RAM. Now the FE+ model does come with either two or four more gigs of RAM than the FE model. Depending on which storage option we're comparing in, we'll cover that in the Configuration section. Either way, if more demanding games are a priority for you, then keep in mind that we know game developers are always going to push to CPU and GPU, and games are going to evolve and start to demand more and more resources. When I look to keep a device for at least four to five years, I'm always going to opt for the tablet that has better CPU and GPU performance than I need right now. And that way, I know that it'll continue to perform better in the future. Something else to consider is the size of the display. The FE+ is bigger, so it's easier to see someone sniping at you from a distance, but the FE model is smaller and lighter so it's more comfortable to hold and play for longer periods of time. If you wanna stream and play Xbox games with the Xbox Game Pass app, you can pair an Xbox controller with both tablets and have extremely smooth gameplay as long as you have a reliable internet connection. I would give the edge to the FE+ model because of the larger display. And both tablets started with 120 gigabytes of storage and have a 256 gigabyte model. So there's no advantage in terms of space for games. And remember that you can use the microSD for additional inexpensive storage, which is a great deal. And speaking of that, if you're looking for great deals on new tech, check out today's sponsor, Best Buy, where you can get a 512 gigabyte Samsung Pro Plus microSD card for 40 bucks. And when you use the app, you get a first look at Best Buy Drops, which means you're getting better savings on hot or limited inventory products. Best Buy has great prices and a Price Match Guarantee. And my Best Buy members get exclusive offers on thousands of products. Like check out this 65 inch 4K TV, it's originally 1,299, but my Best Buy members get $200 off. Or you can take $70 off the Book Cover Keyboard Slim for the Tab S9 FE+. On top of that, if you shop in store, you can just have a blue shirt scan your digital member ID from the app, and all your in-store purchases are attached to your My Best Buy account. So if you wanna save some money on a gift or something for yourself, make sure to download the Best Buy app now for great deals, and think you to Best Buy for sponsoring this portion of the video. Now back to the tablets, another factor to consider is the ability to expand the functionality of each tablet by adding a keyboard case and a stylus. Now both tablets are compatible with two versions of the Book Cover Keyboard from Samsung. In that context, I prefer the FE+ because it's larger and more comfortable to type on. And of course, you can always use an external Bluetooth keyboard instead. Now both tablets also come with a free S Pen, which can be stored on the side or on the back of the tablet, but these are not Bluetooth-enabled S Pens like the ones that come with the flagship models. In terms of the actual writing experience, it's going to be the same with both tablets. And the only practical difference here is the larger canvas on the FE+ model. Looking at the camera systems, both have an eight megapixel rear-facing camera and a 12 megapixel selfie camera. So here's a quick sample. Here's a camera and microphone test of the Tab S9 FE and the Tab S9 FE+. This should give you a pretty good idea of the type of image quality that you're going to get and the type of audio quality that you should expect from both tablets. We talked about performance in the Gaming section, so let's quickly look at the single and multi-core performance of the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 and the Exynos 138 so you can see the differences between the FE and the flagship models. We also see a significant difference in GPU performance, which helps explain some of the differences we saw when gaming. This is not to say that the FE models are not a good value. If you're surfing the web, watching video, or going on social media, you'll definitely be able to use these tablets. And even for like gaming or for and other typical tasks, these will work great. Of course, for more demanding things like photo and video editing or for more demanding games, the flagship models are more capable, but I always encourage you to keep in mind what you plan on doing and not buy products based on somebody else's needs. Both tablets run the latest Android and One UI, so you're getting all the latest features like three tiled apps, pop-up windows, and then of course DeX, which is awesome. So essentially, it reboots the tablet and gives you an operating system that is very similar to a desktop OS. You're getting a task bar, a desktop with icons, multiple windows, you can snap windows, and you can use a keyboard case to transform your tablet to more of a laptop replacement. You can also connect an external keyboard and mouse for a better user experience, but you can't connect an external display and run a dual display setup with either the FE or the FE+. That's only available on the flagship models. You can, however, use both of these tablets as an additional display for your laptop or desktop with Samsung's Second Screen. This is a super handy feature when you travel. As far as OS and security updates, Samsung promises four years of OS updates and five years of security updates, which I think is great. In terms of battery life, the FE model has a smaller 8,000 milliamp per hour battery versus 10,090 on the FE+, and I was super curious to know how that would play out considering the differences in the display sizes. In my test, I found that the larger battery on the FE+ lasts longer even though it has to power the bigger display. And if you want more information, check out this detailed battery drain test of the entire Tab S9 lineup. Now both tablets offer 45 watt fast charging, but neither ships with an adapter, so that's something that you're gonna need to purchase separately. Now when we look at configuration options, both start out with 120 gigabytes of internal storage. The Tab S9 FE comes with six gigs of RAM, and the FE+ comes with eight gigs of RAM. If we upgrade to 256 gigabytes on both models, then we're getting eight gigs of RAM on the Tab S9 FE, and then 12 on the FE+. Now, I didn't notice a major difference in performance between the two of them, but of course, all other things being equal, having more RAM is better, especially if you're multitasking. So ultimately, the choice comes down to the smaller, less expensive, and more portable Tab S9 FE versus the FE+, which has a larger display, is better for multitasking, has more RAM, and better battery life. Now you should check out the battery drain test. Hopefully, this comparison was helpful. Click on my face to subscribe. You know what I always say, "Buy it nice or buy it twice." Good luck and see you soon.Just like the iPad Pro, Samsung's flagship Tab S9 isn't made to appeal to the masses with its premium price, no doubt it offers a really good screen and performance, you sometimes just want a good looking tablet that doesn't feel too expensive but also serviceable at the same time, this is where the Galaxy Tab S9 FE fills in the gap, it looks pretty with a very similar aluminum build and design, and it costs almost half the price of the Tab S9 for the same amount of storage, which is really insane. So, after using it for two weeks, I have some thoughts and here's my review. Compared to the Tab S9, the Tab S9 FE has a slightly smaller screen at 10.9-inches and the bezels are slightly thicker, which gives it around the same dimensions and meanwhile, it is also thicker and heavier but despite that, I still find it very manageable even after holding for 30 minutes. The 10.9-inch display is a 1440p IPS LCD panel that refreshes at 90Hz, which is an improvement over what's offered on the Tab S7 FE previously, and though it lacks the color punch you get on an AMOLED display, it still looks decent for content consumption, not to mention the dual stereo speakers tuned by AKG with Dolby Atmos support, they sound pretty good and I daresay it is on par with the M1 iPad Air. The tablet features a fingerprint reader that's built into the power button, which I very much prefer to under display ones, it has pogo pins at the bottom to power the same book keyboard cover as the Tab S9, which I'm unfortunately not provided with the review unit, but it does come with a non-battery powered S Pen which can be attached magnetically to the top or back of the tablet, and speaking of the S Pen, I love how responsive and precise it is for scribbling on the tablet which is all thanks to the 90Hz display, if you intend to do art on it, Samsung does sell a Creator Edition S Pen that works with the tablet and has better precision. What really amazes me about the Tab S9 FE is the IP68 water and dust resistance that no other similar class tablets are offering at this time, though to be honest I don't see any real world use case for now and this will probably appeal to those who watches Netflix by the pool or in a bathtub, even the provided S Pen is IP68 water and dust resistant, which is really unexpected, but itâ€™s a good thing that Samsung didn't leave out such durability on a cheaper device. The Tab S9 FE is powered by the Exynos 1380 SoC that also powers the Galaxy A54 5G, you also get 8GB of RAM and up to 256GB of expandable storage, the former is a big step down from the Galaxy Tab S9 but unless you want to push the graphics quality in games, the Tab S9 FE actually performs pretty well as a productivity tablet, I encountered very minor stutters in switching apps and scrolling that I would say it is totally negligible, I'm very impressed with how optimized the UI is but as usual, most Android apps are still terrible at supporting tablet screens, Samsung DeX is available on the Tab S9 FE if you prefer a PC desktop like experience, but you can't expand the tablet's display to an external monitor because the USB-C port doesn't support display output and only has USB 2.0 transfer speeds, this isn't going to be a big deal for most people but I think it is something that Samsung should have included as it did on the older Tab S7 FE. The cameras on the tablet are very serviceable, you get a single 12MP camera on the back and an 8MP camera on the front, thought don't expect them to be as good as a phone camera but at least if you want to take some casual photos on it, they are really good for tablet standards, they both also support video recording at 4K 30fps, but I'm not sure why my unit's main camera is limited to just 1080p for whatever reasons, let me know in the comments if you faced the same thing on your unit. The Galaxy Tab S9 FE have no problems lasting up to two days if you are daily driving it as a productivity tablet, but I realized that standby times aren't that great as the battery can totally be depleted in 4 days if you aren't doing anything on it, although the saving grace here is Samsung's 45W fast charging, which can juice up a dead battery in 90 minutes and overall, I have no major complains about it. In my opinion, I think this is the most sensible FE product that Samsung has ever made, mainly because there isn't a lot of competition in the Android tablet market, and there is a clear price difference between the flagship Tab S9, the Tab S9 FE is obviously targeted at Apple's entry-level iPad and the M1 iPad Air, and I think it serves a great value proposition over these two when it comes to the hardware features, but definitely not when it comes to performance and the quality of apps you get on iPadOS, but even so, I think this is a better value tablet for media consumption and basic productivity due to its 16:10 aspect ratio that works really well.- When Samsung released the FE version of the Tab S9, I was so excited and I couldn't wait to do this comparison with the iPad 10. Both tablets are about the same size and the same price, but the choice wasn't as easy as I initially thought it would be. And by the way, I know prices around the world are very different, so if you're watching this from outside of the US, please let me know in the comment section where you're from and how much each of these tablets cost because obviously this is a really important factor and thank you to Best Buy for sponsoring a portion of this video. So the first thing most people consider is the display. And in this case, the iPad 10 has a 10.9 inch liquid retina 60 Hertz display with the resolution of 1640 by 2360, a four by three aspect ratio and 264 pixels per inch. The Tab S9 FE also has a 10.9 inch IPS LCD display, but it's a 90 Hertz display, has a resolution of 1440 by 2304, an aspect ratio of 16 by 10 and then a lower pixel density of 249. Now in terms of image quality, both displays are sharp and crisp, and if I'm being critical, the iPad has better color accuracy and the Tab S9 FE is a bit warmer and has a slight greenish shift. I do like that it's a 90 Hertz display on the Tab S9 FE because things like animations and scrolling look smoother. Now, 60 Hertz has never really been a deal breaker for me. Right now I'm using three different phones, the iPhone 15 Pro Max, the Samsung S23 Ultra and the Pixel 8 Pro. So I'm used to 120 Hertz, but I think a higher refresh rate is a nice to have, but not critical for most tasks on mobile devices. There are exceptions, of course, like some games, but things got a little strange there. So I'll come back to that in the dedicated gaming section of this video. Now, in terms of aspect ratio, the Tab S9 FE is better suited for watching video because the 16 by 10 aspect ratio is closer to most content and the image is larger and has smaller black bars. Now with the iPad 10, we're getting a four by three aspect ratio, which is wider in portrait mode, and it's really nice when taking handwritten notes using the Apple Pencil. Now another important difference is that the Tab S9 FE has a fully laminated display. So the display, the touch layer and the cover glass are fused together into a single display assembly and the image looks like it's printed right on top of the glass. On the iPad 10, there is an air gap between the display and the combination of cover glass and touch layer. For a lot of things like watching movies, surfing the web or playing games, it's not really something that you're going to notice unless you really look for it, but when you're using the stylus, it does make a difference. So with the iPad 10, you'll be able to see separation between the tip of the Apple Pencil and the content that's being created, especially if you're looking at an angle. With the Tab S9 FE because the image looks like it's on top of the glass, it's going to look like the tip of the S Pen is touching the line or the content that you're creating, which of course is better. The one advantage of a non laminated display is that if the display gets damaged, most of the time it's just a cover glass so replacement is relatively inexpensive. With a fully laminated display, the entire display assembly has to be replaced even if you just scratch the cover glass. I'll also get to a few other important stylus differences in just a moment, but first I want to talk about gaming. So I play a lot of games on my tablets and I was really curious to see how these two would match up. So I was able to play my usual games like Genshin, Asphalt and PUBG and then of course less demanding games. But there was an obvious difference in both processing power and GPU performance, which did have an impact on more resource intensive games. I'll quickly show you benchmarks in the performance section, but this was one of those areas where I could clearly see the advantage of the iPad's A14 chip over the Exynos 1380. Now using PUBG as an example, gameplay was smoother and more responsive on the iPad, and I could play with balanced graphics and extreme frame rate versus balanced graphics and high frame rate on the Tab S9. And then of course, I could definitely not get to the 90 FPS that would take advantage of the faster refresh rate on the Samsung display. I had a similar experience with Genshin, which again performed better on the iPad 10, even though it has less RAM than a Tab S9 FE. Now looking ahead, we know that game developers are always looking to push the CPU and GPU and games are going to evolve and start to demand more and more resources. If I'm looking for a device to keep for the next four or five years or even more, I'm always going to opt for the tablet that has better CPU and GPU performance than what I need right now so it continues to perform well into the future. Now, if you wanna stream and play Xbox Games with the Xbox Game Pass app, you can pair an Xbox controller with both tablets and have extremely smooth gameplay as long as you have a reliable internet connection. But there's one area where the Tab S9 FE comes out ahead and that's storage. The iPad 10 starts out with 64 gigabytes of internal storage versus 128 gigs on the Tab S9 FE. To give you a sense of what that means, iPad OS currently takes up a little over 10 gigabytes of storage, system data takes up another 11 gigs, and PUBG uses a little over 20 gigs. So that's 41 out of 64 available gigabytes already used up with no other apps, files or photos. Now both tablets are also available in 256 gigabyte options. With the iPad, that's an additional 150 bucks, and with the Tab S9 FE, it's an extra 70 bucks. Now the Tab S9 FE also has a micro SD card slot, which you can use to expand the internal storage by up to one terabyte. And you can use this storage for files, photos, videos, and for most apps. We'll talk more about the configuration options later on but for right now, I just wanna make sure that you have enough storage for all the apps and the games that you want to install. And that brings me to today's sponsor Best Buy and the Western Digital Storage Solutions for gamers. If you have a PlayStation 5, the Western Digital Black SN850 P NVME SSD is officially licensed. It's extremely easy to install. It's unbelievably fast, and this one terabyte version means that I'm not wasting any time deleting and downloading games when I run out of space. If you prefer Xbox, then check out the WD Black C50. It's designed in partnership with Xbox. It has a built-in heat sink to avoid lag, and it's designed to specifically meet the speed and lifespan requirements of your Xbox. And finally, if you prefer a gaming pc, check out the WD Black D10 desktop hard drive. It's designed to offer additional storage for demanding PC gaming rigs. It's plug and play, and it gives your gaming PC the reliable performance boost and capacity it needs. Not all SSDs and hard drives are created equal. So do it right and visit bestbuy.com to get a super fast Western Digital drive that was specifically designed for your gaming needs. And thank you to Best Buy for sponsoring this portion of the video. When we look at the overall design of these tablets, they're quite similar since Apple upgraded from the older iPad 9 design. Both tablets are machined aluminum, both have rounded corners and squared off edges, but the Tab S9 FE has slightly smaller bezels. We're getting a fingerprint sensor incorporated into the power button in both devices, on the iPad 10 it's on the short side, on the Tab S9 FE it's on the longer side, and both have been very accurate and responsive for me, but the iPad 10 has four speaker grills versus two on the Tab S9 FE, but both tablets only have two speakers, one on each side. In terms of audio quality, both are good but not as good as the higher end models. And the Tab S9 FE speakers are a tad louder and sound a bit brighter. One thing that I found when I'm gaming and holding the tablet in my hand is that on the iPad Air 4, I'm actually covering the speakers with my hand. So there are two other grills, so the sound can't come from there. But on the Tab S9 FE, the speakers are on the top if I'm holding in a landscape mode, so I'm not blocking them. Now personally, I'm okay either way because whenever I'm gaming, I'm wearing a headset, but I just wanted to mention it in case you don't. The Tab S9 FE also has an IP 68 rating, so we're getting protection from water and dust. Now, obviously this is important if you take your tablet with you and you travel or when you go outside, but even when you're just around the house, it's nice to have additional protection from accidental spills. Now, both tablets use a USB-C port for charging and connecting accessories, which brings me to the stylus and keyboard options. The iPad 10 is compatible with the first generation Apple Pencil, which costs $99. It pairs and charges using a cable, and it requires a USB to lightning adapter. The iPad is also compatible with the newer USB-C Apple Pencil, which charges and pairs with a wire but doesn't require an adapter. It costs $79. It doesn't offer pressure sensitivity, but it does magnetically attach to the side of the iPad. The Tab S9 FE comes with a free S Pen, which can be stored on the side or on the back of the tablet. It has a programmable button and it doesn't need to be charged in order to write or draw. Now, in terms of the actual writing experience, the Apple Pencil has a firm tip, so it's a little harsher when it hits the glass and it feels like you're writing on a single sheet of paper that's placed on a hard surface. The S Pen has a softer tip to it, so when it hits the glass, it gives a little, and it feels more like you're writing on a full pad of paper where the pages compress as you press down. Now, one isn't objectively better than the other for every single use and it's going to come down to which one feels better for you. So as always, I hope this description helps you make a choice. Now, as far as the camera systems, the iPad has a more capable rear facing camera in terms of resolution and frame rate, and both tablets have a 12 megapixel front facing camera. And here's a quick sample. Here's a camera and microphone test of the iPad 10 and the Tab S9 FE. This should give you a pretty good idea of the type of image quality that you're going to get and the type of audio quality that you should expect from each tablet. Now, both tablets also have the front facing camera on the long edge, so you're always properly framed during video calls. Now, when we talked about gaming, I mentioned the performance of the iPad's A14 Bionic, and the Tab S9 FE's Exynos 1380. So let's quickly look at single and multi-core performance where we see the Apple chip pull ahead. We also see it's scored noticeably higher in GPU performance, which helps explain some of the differences we saw. Now, of course, these are just benchmark scores. So what about just typical real life use? Well, if you're surfing the web, watching video or going on social media, it doesn't really matter that much. You can easily do that with both tablets, but the iPad does feel snappier and more responsive, and I would expect it to continue to perform better for longer. Now, if you're doing something like a very heavy video editing, then again the iPad would be a better choice. When multitasking, the iPad can run two apps in split view, plus additional apps in a slide over window. The Tab S9 FE can run three tiled apps at the same time with more flexibility when it comes to how much real estate each app takes. It can also run multiple floating windows, which can be resized, and you can even change the transparency. Now, both tablets have a customizable dock, but the Tab S9 FE also has a super handy side panel for quick access. Now, both tablets can be used as additional displays for compatible desktops and laptops. Apple calls this feature sidecar and Samsung calls it second screen. These are great features and you should all use them, but if you're looking for more of a laptop replacement, the Tab S9 FE has DeX, which I love, but there is one limitation here. So if you're new to Samsung, DeX essentially reboots the tablet with an OS that looks very similar to what you get on a laptop. You've got a task bar where you can minimize and see active apps. You have an actual desktop with icons, and you can run multiple floating windows or snap windows to the side of the display. But unlike with the higher end Tab S9, S9+ and S9 Ultra, you can't connect an external monitor and run a dual display setup. The iPad 10 does let you mirror your display to an external display, but it doesn't stretch out to fill the entire monitor because the iPad 10 doesn't fully support stage manager, and it's not an extended display. So when it comes to being a laptop replacement, it's still a win for the Tab S9 FE, but not quite as good as what you get with the higher end models. Now, battery life is always interesting because it comes down to what you actually do. So comparing these devices when they're new, I'm looking at about 10 hours on the iPad 10, about 13 to 14 hours on a Tab S9 FE. Again, depending on what I was doing. Now, of course, these times are not of me gaming the entire time, and they include things like surfing the web, watching video, using social media apps, and working with productivity apps. Now, when you're looking at available apps, the Google Play Store, the Galaxy Store and the Apple App Store have a ton of options for pretty much everything that you need. In general, I'm going to give the edge to the iPad 10 because the apps seem to be better optimized for a tablet. But as I've said in recent videos, the gap continues to shrink. Several creative apps like Affinity Photo and Procreate are only available for the iPad, but it's great to see that there's an Android version of Luma Fusion. Now, both tablets run the latest available operating systems and Samsung promises four years of OS upgrades and five years of security updates. Now, Apple devices typically get longer support than that. So when I take into account the improved CPU and GPU performance, I'm going to give the iPad the edge in terms of longevity. I also want you to consider other products that you own which make up your ecosystem. Now, Samsung has made some really impressive improvements over the past few years, adding much needed integration between multiple devices, wireless file and text sharing, then additional cross device integrations. And even though the gap again continues to shrink, Apple's ecosystem is still more complete and more tightly integrated due to the fact that they have full control over the hardware and software on all of their devices. Now, when we look at configuration options and prices from the official stores, we already talked about the storage options, but both the 64 and 256 gigabyte models of the iPad 10 come with four gigabytes of RAM. with the Tab S9 FE, the 128 gigabyte model comes with six gigs of RAM and the 256 gigabyte model comes with eight. So here's how I look at this choice. The iPad is more powerful and will be more capable if you plan on keeping your device for many years and you like to play more demanding games at higher settings or performing other resource intensive tasks. It also offers better optimized apps, access to some creative specific apps and better longterm support. The Tab S9 FE is smaller and lighter. It offers additional protection with an IP 68 rating. It comes with a free S Pen, more storage, expandable storage, more capable multitasking, and better battery life. Now, you should see how the Tab S9 Ultra compares with the previous model. You know what I always say, buy it nice or buy it twice. Good luck and see you soon.In August we got acquainted with the Galaxy Tab S9 series, with the S9 Ultra model showcasing the best Samsung has to offer in the premium Android tablet segment, and now it's time to meet the Galaxy Tab S9 FE - Fan Edition, the less extravagant alternative proposed to consumers with "normal" budgets and more moderate expectations. Being initially for a lower budget, Samsung has prepared the Galaxy Tab S9 FE in only two variants, FE and FE+, leaving the "behemoth" Tab S9 Ultra as a go-to solution for those who want everything to the max. We thus have the Tab S9 FE of 10.9 and the Tab S9 FE+ of 12.4 , both with an LCD screen and a mid-performance Exynos chipset. I remind you that starting with the Tab S9 series, Samsung offers OLED screens on all models in the range, including the basic Tab S9, ensuring that the premium tablet offering is differentiated in a way that leaves no room for interpretation. From a distance, you could be forgiven if you can't spot any difference between the Galaxy Tab S9 FE and the standard model. Both come in a brushed aluminum case, with almost identical weight and dimensions. The differences are so small that you can easily use the Galaxy Tab S9 accessories with the FE model. Samsung even retained the IP68 certification, a feature rarely found in tablets in this price range. Even if not entirely, the Galaxy Tab S9 FE still seems like a premium tablet. But since I don't look at things from a distance, let's see where the "savings" were made. One clue would be the lack of the S Pen zone on the FE, which is specifically marked on the back of the standard S9. Fortunately, this is only a design omission, as the S Pen included in the FE accessory package can be placed both on the back of the tablet and on the side frame. And as a result of choosing an LCD screen, the fingerprint sensor is now located on the side frame, integrated into the Power button. Far from being a compromise, the capacitive sensor is in an easily accessible location and gives good results, with fingerprint recognition being almost as fast as an optical solution integrated under the screen. Another indication of cost cuts would be the abandonment of the four-speaker configuration, with the Galaxy Tab S9 FE having only two speakers, designed for a stereo listening experience in landscape mode. So, if you're one of those who watch TikTok videos with the tablet in a vertical position, you'll have a less than great audio experience with the speakers in this top-bottom arrangement. On the other hand, the sound itself, "tuned by AKG", is of good fidelity and can rise to a reasonable volume without encountering distortion problems. A distinctive feature compared to the non-FE model, the LCD screen is well lit enough even for outdoor use, has vivid colors, and excellent image clarity. Yes, the LCD used doesn't have HDR10+ and can't reproduce the perfect black specific to OLED solutions, but it does more than a decent job. Even when placed side by side, you need to know what to look for to spot the differences between the S9 FE and the more expensive S9 model, released at the end of this summer. So, can the Galaxy Tab S9 FE be a credible alternative to Tab S9? Starting with a good first impression, the temptation would be to say yes. But as always, the truth is somewhere in between. With a price of $450 for the basic FE equipment, compared to the $800 for the Tab S9, it's hard to say no to a tablet like this. The assembly, finishes, and feeling are all right, and the screen, even if it's LCD, is not bad at all. However, you will fully feel the difference elsewhere: specifically, in the performance difference between the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 processor used by Tab S9, which is also found on the S23 Ultra, and Samsung's proprietary Exynos 1380 on the FE, also found on the Galaxy A54 for example. And the performance levels firmly position the Galaxy Tab S9 FE outside the circle of power users. Delivered with only 6GB of RAM in the basic configuration, the Tab S9 FE should at least be ordered in the 8GB/256GB memory version to enter that specification area for which Samsung optimizes the One UI firmware in the long term. And speaking of One UI, the current Samsung firmware based on Android 14 and One UI 6.0 seems a bit unfinished. Even if I didn't come across serious bugs, the fluidity of the interface and the tendency to "hang" at times contrast strongly with the One UI 5.1 experience on the Tab S9. I tend to believe that the weaker chipset is not the problem here, but rather the firmware part, the Galaxy Tab S9 FE needing some optimizations in this chapter. However, One UI features are essentially identical for both tablet series, with the Galaxy Tab S9 FE offering the same set of applications and optimizations for the S Pen, for example. Again, Samsung shows that the FE series is not for power users, restricting the use of DEX mode only to the tablet screen, without the possibility of connecting an external monitor. You can use both the Book Cover keyboard for emulating a mini-laptop or a keyboard and mouse set for PC, connected via Bluetooth. The Dex experience isn't bad, provided you limit yourself to at most two apps displayed simultaneously on the 10.9" screen. Likewise, if you want to benefit from Air Actions support, you will have to buy the S Pen Pro accessory separately, the one included in the package not offering this option. But as a pleasant surprise, the gaming experience is decent, without stuttering or lag effects. However, it's good to know that in some demanding games, like PUBG, the detail level is automatically reduced to medium and should be kept that way to get a playable framerate. Considering the chipset used, it's no wonder the tablet doesn't heat up much. Moreover, Samsung claims that the 8000 mAh battery can offer more than 20 hours of autonomy in video mode. Moving on to charging, Samsung says there is support for 45W fast charging, but I tested this claim with a 65W AC adapter and a USB-C cable certified for 45W charging, original Samsung accessories, and measured only 36-37W power consumed and almost 90 minutes for a full charge. Well, draw your own conclusions. In the "other features" chapter, we have a main 12MP camera and an 8MP front camera. Neither is great, at least not in artificial light, but for video calls and those moments when you can't be bothered to reach for a better-equipped phone, it's probably enough. It's also good to know that you can film with the tablet up to 4K resolution at 30 fps. Now let's take another look at the accessories. Even if Samsung recommends it for on-the-go use, the Outdoor Cover should be an essential accessory for anyone with small children around, or if you're clumsy. Built like a tank, the detachable protective case uses hard plastic for crush and twist protection, while shock and impact protection is provided by the very resistant rubber side frame. The Samsung Outdoor Cover has a retractable stand that allows the tablet to be placed in landscape mode. Also, the space for the S Pen accessory is additionally protected, both against impact and accidental loss of the pen. Before ordering, you should know that the Outdoor Cover is a heavy-duty protective case, which adds quite a bit to the thickness and weight of the tablet. If you don't foresee very careless use of the tablet, then maybe it's worth taking a look at other Samsung cases. And we have another interesting optional accessory: the S Pen Creator Edition is a significant upgrade from the S Pen version included in the Tab S9 FE package, with support for Air Actions. If the first can be thought of as a pen or pencil with a thin tip, the S Pen Creator Edition is a little heavier and thicker, enough to feel like you're using a real pencil and not something "toy-like." Helpful is also the tip that very well imitates the shape of a drawing pencil lead. However, to avoid the feeling of slipping on the glossy glass, I also recommend the Note Paper Screen accessory. As the name suggests, this is like a kind of film made of transparent plastic and is placed over the display. The matte-type foil has a specially chosen texture to mimic the feeling of sliding on real paper, and I think it's a must-have, if you know you will work a lot with the pen. The good part is that whichever S Pen version you choose to use, you won't have problems with lag or insufficient sensitivity, both working flawlessly, as you would expect from a latest generation Samsung device. And speaking of accessories, let's discuss a bit about the new Galaxy Buds FE. Worth watching in future promotional campaigns, the Buds FE come at $100 and are a good alternative to the Galaxy Buds2 Pro, which were around $220 at launch. Both are offered in almost identical cases, with a matte finish and the Samsung logo embossed on the Buds2 Pro case, respectively, glossy plastic and printed logo on the Buds FE case. Buds2 Pro have a slightly rounder shape, touch operation, and feel a bit heavier in hand. In contrast, Buds FE have more easily noticeable joint areas and don't feel quite as premium. Fortunately, the performance differences between the two aren't that big. Tested side by side, both have decent bass and a decently high volume. The Hi-Fi sensation is clearly superior on the Buds2 Pro, which come with dedicated speakers for bass and mid-highs, hence probably the noticeable weight difference. While I wouldn't go as far as to say it disappoints, listening on the Buds FE has some downsides regarding the playback of mid-high frequencies, some instruments and nuances being covered by the strong bass. The noise-canceling functionality is also clearly weaker on the FE, with Buds2 Pro maintaining a decisive advantage here. Overall, the Buds FE are certainly not to be avoided, but neither to be bought blindly at full price. And the last but not least interesting accessory of today is this SmartTag2. Along with the Tab S9 FE, Samsung also unveiled the latest version of the SmartTag accessory. Even though it retains the basic functionality unchanged, SmartTag2 comes with a much-improved exterior design and extra features like ultra-wideband connectivity, which was only found in the SmartTag Plus series so far. If the first SmartTag version was rather rudimentary in design, shaped like a slightly thicker plastic coin, SmartTag2 is a much more refined gadget, which you'll probably hate to hide somewhere in your luggage. However, Samsung has also made changes that you might not like, with SmartTag2 no longer being as invisible as the first generation. If the former was basically a coin that you could easily attach anywhere you needed, the new version is more like a stylish keychain, with Samsung seeming to want to get rid of the undesired stalker accessory image, used by jealous lovers. Instead, you can attach the SmartTag2 to a belt or other thicker objects than a cord. And if you really want full flexibility, know that there is also a Rugged Case equipped with a self-locking ring, working like a hook for attaching to various objects, such as luggage or a pet's collar. Samsung has also kept the programmable function button. For example, you can set an emergency message from the SmartThings app, a simple button press sending an SMS with your location data to a trusted person. It should be mentioned that this functionality is not guaranteed in every situation, for example, if you are in an isolated location, and there is no other nearby device to relay the triggered alert. Alright, now that we're done with the accessories, let's answer that thousand points question: is the Galaxy Tab S9 FE a credible Tab S9 alternative? Yes and no. Yes, if you fall into the category of users targeted by Samsung. Are you a student or simply in need of a tablet to work on, possibly on the go? If you want to use the tablet at home for movies, email, or just wasting time on social media, the Tab S9 FE performs admirably in all these roles. It's a slim and lightweight tablet with premium finishes and enough processing power to handle many scenarios. Moreover, it's a tablet priced fairly for what it offers. On the other hand, I don't recommend the Tab S9 FE if you already own a top-tier phone and want your future tablet to be an extension of it. You will feel the performance difference, and we all know what it's like to switch between devices that aren't on the same level. Also, if you want to do video editing on a tablet, play games after manually maxing out all settings, or simply want an experience completely free from compromises, then the Tab S9, with its OLED screen and Snapdragon 8 Gen 2, and significantly pricier, remains the obvious choice. And now, let me know in the comments section: what do you think of the Galaxy Tab S9 FE? And while you're here, please subscribe to Techniqulities! Take care and good luck to you all!if you're expecting to hear about the most mind-blowing tablet ever created you might want to click away now yep you heard me right if you're looking for a tablet that's about as exciting as watching paint dry then you've come to the right place today we're talking about the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Fe a device that's about as thrilling as watching grass grow so if you've got better things to do like organizing your sock drawer or alphabetizing your spice rack I totally get it but hey if you're curious about just how unremarkable this tablet really is then stick around we've got plenty of lackluster details to cover so grab your favorite snack because this is going to be one snoozefest of a video let's get into it first things first let's talk about that stunning display the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Fe boasts a gorgeous 10.9 in IPS LCD screen with a smooth 90 HZ refresh rate whether you're streaming your favorite shows or getting work done every image and video pops with vibrant colors and sharp detail plus with a resolution of 14 or 40 x234 pixels you're guaranteed a crisp viewing experience every time under the hood the Galaxy Tab S9 Fe is powered by the exos 1380 chipset ensuring smooth performance no matter what you throw at it with an octacore CPU and Marley g68 MP5 GPU this tablet can handle everything from gaming to multitasking with ease and with options for either 6gb or 8GB of RAM and up to 256 J bars of internal storage you'll have plenty of space for all your apps games and media now let's talk about the cameras while tablets aren't typically known for their photography prod the Galaxy Tab S9 Fe still manages to impress on the back you'll find an 8 megap wideangle camera perfect for capturing those spontaneous moments on the go and on the front there's a 12 megap ultrawide camera ideal for video calls and selfies while it may not rival the cameras on Flagship smartphones it's still more than capable for rase for everyday use when it comes to battery life the Galaxy Tab s9f is doesn't disappoint with its massive 8,000 MERS battery you can enjoy hours of uninterrupted use on a single charge and when it's time to juice up the tablet supports 45w wired charging ensuring you spend less time plugged in and More Time On The Go plus with features like Wi-Fi 6 Bluetooth 5.3 and support for 5G connectivity you'll always stay connected no matter where you are last but not least let's talk about the software the Galaxy Tab S9 Fe runs on Android 13 out of the box with an upgrade to Android 14 available down the line and with Samsung's 1 UI 6 overlay you'll enjoy a sleek and intuitive user experience that's optimized for productivity and entertainment so when can you get your hands on the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Fe well it was announced on October 4th 2023 and it hit the shelves on October 16th 2023 with a price tag of around $530 with its impressive features and affordable price point it's definitely worth considering if you're in the market for a new tablet well folks there you have it the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Fe a tablet that's about as thrilling as watching paint dry on a rainy day if you've made it to the end of this video congratulations you've officially survived the most mind-numbing tech review on the internet but hey before you click away to something infinitely more interesting don't forget to hit that dislike button and unsubscribe because let's face it if you're still here you're probably questioning All Your Life Choices up to this point thanks for tuning in to this absolute snoozefest of a video n- Would you rather have a bigger tablet with a higher resolution, faster refresh rate and a free stylus or a more powerful tablet that's more capable for gaming, has an aspect ratio that's better suited for note taking and with a more dedicated app ecosystem? These are some of the choices you'll have to make when choosing between the iPad 10 and the Tab S9 FE. Both tablets are about the same price in the US, but I know the prices around the world are really different. So if you're watching this from outside of the US, please let me know in the comment section where you're from and how much the base models of each of these tablets cost where you live. So the first thing that most people look at is the display. And in that case, the iPad 10 has a 10.9 inch liquid retina 60 hertz display with a resolution of 1640 by 2360, a four by three aspect ratio and 264 pixels per inch. The tab S9 FE+ has an IPS LCD display, which offers a faster 90 hertz adaptive refresh rate, a higher resolution of 1600 by 2560, but a lower pixel density of 243 pixels per inch. In terms of image quality, both displays are sharp and crisp, and if I'm being critical, the iPad has better color accuracy and the tab S9 FE+ is a bit warmer and has a slight greenish tint. I do prefer the 90 hertz on the tab S9 FE+ because things like UI animations and scrolling looks smoother. Now 60 hertz has never been a deal breaker for me, and right now I'm using three different phones, the iPhone 15 Pro Max, the Samsung S24 Ultra, and the Pixel 8 Pros, all of which have 120 hertz displays. But I think that a higher refresh rate is a nice to have, but not critical for most tasks on a mobile device. Now there are exceptions of course, like some games and we'll get to that in the dedicated gaming section of this video. In terms of aspect ratios, with the iPad 10, we're getting a four by three aspect ratio, which is really nice when taking handwritten notes using the Apple pencil. But overall, the tab S9 FE is still wider in portrait mode because the tablet is larger. The FE+ is better suited for watching video because the 16 by 10 aspect ratio is closer to most content and the image is larger and has smaller black bars. Now another important difference is that the tab S9 FE+ has a fully laminated display. So the display, the touch layer and the cover glass are fused together into a single display assembly and the image looks like it's printed right on top of the glass. On the iPad 10, there is an air gap between the display and the combination of cover glass and touch layer. For a lot of things like watching movies, surfing the web or playing games. It's not really something that you're going to notice unless you really look for it, but when you're using the stylus, it does make a difference. With the iPad 10, you'll be able to see separation between the tip of the Apple pencil and the content that's being created, especially if you're looking at an angle. With the tab S9 FE+, because the image looks like it's right on top of the glass, it's going to look like the tip of the S Pen is actually touching the line or the content that you're creating, which of course is better. But the one advantage of a non laminated display is that if the display gets damaged or scratched, most of the time it's just the cover glass so the replacement is relatively inexpensive. With a fully laminated display, the entire display assembly has to be replaced, even if it's just a scratch on the cover glass. I'll also get to a few other important stylist differences in just a moment, but first, let's talk about gaming. So I play a ton on my tablets and I was really curious. I really wanted to see how these tablets would match up. Now overall, I was able to play my usual games on both tablets and that includes Genshin, Asphalt, PUBG, and then of course some less demanding games. But there was an obvious difference in both processing power and GPU performance, which did have an impact on my experience when I played more resource intensive games. Now I'll quickly show you the benchmarks in the performance section, but gaming was one of those areas where I could very clearly notice the advantage of the older but more capable A14 bionic chip on the iPad 10 when compared with the Exynos 1380 on the tab S9 FE+. Using PUBG as an example, gameplay was smoother and more responsive on the iPad. I could play with balanced graphics and extreme frame rate versus balanced graphics and high frame rate on the tab S9 FE+. So even though the FE+ display can technically reach a faster 90 FPS, it didn't result in a practical advantage for PUBG. I had a similar experience with Genshin where again just performed better on the iPad 10 even though it has less RAM than the Tab S9 FE+. Now, I always like to mention that we know game developers will look to push the CPU and GPU and games are going to evolve and start to demand more and more resources. So if I'm looking to keep a device for at least four to five years or even longer, I'm always going to opt for a tablet that has better CPU and GPU performance so that it continues to perform well into the future. Now, if you wanna stream and play Xbox Games with the Xbox Game Pass app, you can pair an Xbox control with both tablets and have extremely smooth gameplay as long as you have a reliable internet connection and I'll give the edge to the FE+ because of the larger display. Now another area where the tab S9 FE+ comes out ahead is storage. So the iPad 10 starts out with 64 gigabytes of internal storage versus 128 gigabytes on the tab S9 FE+. Now to give you a sense of what that means, iPad OS currently takes up a little over 10 gigabytes of storage, system data takes up another 11 gigs, and PUBG uses up a little over 20 gigs with the maps and resources that I have downloaded. So that's 41 of the 64 available gigs already used up with no other apps, files or photos. And both tablets are also available with a 256 gigabyte option. With the iPad, that's an additional 150 bucks and with the tab S9 FE+, it's an extra $100 which also gives you a bump in RAM, but we'll cover that in the configuration section. Now the FE+ also has a micro SD card slot, which allows you to expand the internal storage by up to one terabyte and you can use this storage for files, for photos, for videos, and for most apps. Now, when we look at the overall design of these tablets, both tablets are machined aluminum, both have rounded corners and squared off edges, but the Tab S9 FE+ is larger and has slightly smaller bezels. We're getting a fingerprint sensor incorporated into the power button with both devices. On the iPad 10, it's on the short side, on the Tab S9 FE+ it's on the longer side and both have been very accurate and responsive for me. The iPad 10 has four speaker grills versus two on the tab S9 FE+, but both tablets only have two speakers, one on each side. In terms of audio quality, both are good. You know, they're not as good as the higher end models and between these two, the tab S9 FE+ speakers are a little bit louder and they sound brighter. Another nice feature about the FE+ is that it has an IP 68 rating, so we're getting protection from water and dust. Now obviously this is important if you take your tablet with you when you travel or if you use it outside a lot, but even around the house it's super nice to have additional protection from accidental spills, especially you know if you have kind of an active dog. Now both tablets use a USB-C port for charging and connecting accessories, which brings me to the stylus and keyboard option. But the FE+ comes with a free S Pen, which can be stored on the side or the back of the tablet. It has a programmable button and it doesn't need to be charged in order to write or draw. The iPad 10 is compatible with the first generation Apple pencil, which costs $99. It pairs and charges using a cable and requires a lightning to USB-C adapter. The iPad is also compatible with the newer USB-C Apple pencil, which charges and pairs with a wire and doesn't require an adapter. It costs $79, doesn't offer pressure sensitivity, but it does magnetically attach to the side of the iPad. In terms of the actual writing experience, the Apple pencil has a firm tip, so it's a little harsher when it hits the glass and it feels like you're writing or drawing on a single sheet of paper that's placed on a hard surface. The S Pen has a softer tip, so when it hits the glass, it gives a little and it feels more like you're writing on a full pad of paper where the pages compress as you press down. Now, one isn't objectively better than the other for every use, and it's going to come down to what feels better for you so hopefully this description was helpful. When we look at keyboard cases with track pads, the Tab S9 FE+ uses the book cover keyboard and the iPad 10 uses a magic keyboard folio. Both have a similar design with detachable keyboard and an adjustable back. The Samsung book cover keyboard is larger, it can be angled farther back so it's more adjustable. It also has a bump out for the S Pen, so it's always protected. At the same time, the magic keyboard folio is more solidly built. It has better keys and a more responsive and more accurate track pad. Now, one final advantage of the magic keyboard folio is that the keyboard can be flipped and reattached so that when it folds back, the keys are not exposed. As far as camera systems, the iPad has a more capable rear facing camera in terms of resolution and frame rate, but the tab S9 FE+ has a wide and an ultra wide camera. Practically speaking, I don't really use the rear facing cameras on my tablet, so for me, that's not a huge deciding factor. Both tablets have a 12 megapixel front facing camera and here's a quick sample. Here's a camera and microphone comparison of the iPad 10 and the Tab S9 FE+. This should give you a pretty good idea of the type of image quality that you're going to get and the type of audio quality that you should expect from each tablet. I also like the fact that in both cases the camera is placed in the center of the long edge and this way you're always properly framed for video calls. Now, when we talked about gaming, I mentioned the performance of the iPad's A14 bionic and the FE+'s Exynos 1380. So let's quickly look at single and multicore performance where we see the Apple chip pull ahead. We also see it score noticeably higher in GPU performance, which helps explain some of the differences we saw. Now of course, these are just benchmark scores, so what about typical everyday use? Well, if you're surfing the web, watching video or going on social media, it doesn't really mean much and you can easily do that with both tablets, but the iPad definitely feels snappier and more responsive and it should continue to perform better for longer. If you're doing something like heavy photo or video editing, then again the iPad would be a better option. When multitasking, the iPad can run two apps in split view plus additional apps in a slide over window. The Tab S9 FE+ can run three tiled apps with more flexibility when it comes to how much real estate each app takes. It can also run multiple floating windows, which can be resized and can even change the transparency. And on top of that, it has a larger display. Now both tablets have a customizable dock, but the Tab S9 FE+ also has a super handy side panel for quick access. Both tablets can be used as additional displays for compatible desktops and laptops. Apple calls this feature sidecar and Samsung calls it second screen. And these are great features for both tablets, so you should definitely use them. But if you're looking for more of a laptop replacement, the tab S9 FE+ has DeX, which I love but there is one limitation. If you're new to Samsung tablets, DeX essentially reboots the tablet with an OS that looks very similar to what you get on a laptop. You've got a task bar where you can minimize and see active apps. You have an actual desktop with icons and you can run multiple floating windows or snap windows to the sides of the display. But unlike with the Tab S9, S9+ and S9 Ultra, you can't connect an external display and then run a dual display set up with the FE+. And if you wanna learn more about that, watch this full comparison. Now the iPad 10 does let you mirror your display to an external display, but it doesn't stretch out to use the entire monitor because the iPad 10 doesn't fully support stage manager and it's not an extended display. So when it comes to being a laptop replacement, it's still a win for the tab S9 FE+, but not quite as good as what you get with the higher end models. Now battery life is always interesting because it does come down to what you actually do. Now, comparing these devices when they were new, I'm looking at about 10 hours with the iPad 10 and about 13 to 14 hours from the tab S9 FE+. Again, depending on what I was doing. Now, of course these times aren't with me gaming the entire time and they include surfing the web, watching video, and working with productivity and social media apps. When you're looking for available apps, the Google Play Store, the Galaxy Store and the Apple App Store have tons of options for pretty much everything that you need. In general, I'm still going to give the edge to the iPad 10 because the apps seem to be better optimized for a tablet. But as I've said in other recent videos, the gap continues to close as several creative apps like Affinity Photo and Procreate are only available for the iPad. But it's great to see that there is an Android version of LumaFusion. Now both tablets run the latest available operating systems and Samsung promises four years of OS updates and five years of security updates. Apple devices typically get longer support than that, and when I take into account the improved CPU and GPU performance, I'm going to give the iPad the edge in terms of longevity. It's also super important that you consider the other products that you own, which make up your ecosystem. Samsung has made some wonderful improvements over the past few years, adding much needed integration between multiple devices, things like wireless file and text sharing and additional cross device integrations. And even though the gap continues to shrink, Apple's ecosystem is still more complete and more tightly integrated due to the fact that they have full control of the hardware and the software on all their devices. And when we look at the configuration options and prices from the official stores, we already talked about the storage options, but both the 64 and the 256 gigabytes models of the iPad 10 come with four gigabytes of RAM. With the FE+, the 128 gigabyte model comes with eight gigs of ram, and the 256 gigabyte model comes with 12. There are also some great discounts going on right now, and I make sure to update the links in the description when I find better ones. So here's how I look at this decision. The iPad 10 is smaller and lighter. It's more powerful and it will be more capable if you plan on keeping your device for many years and you like to play more demanding games at higher settings or plan on performing other resource intensive tasks. It also offers better optimized apps, exclusive access to some creative specific apps and better long term support. The Tab S9 FE+ is larger. It offers additional protection with an IP 68 rating. It comes with a free S Pen, more storage on the base model, expandable storage, more capable multitasking, and better battery life. You know what I always say, buy it nice or buy it twice. Good luck and see you soon.- As soon as we compare these two displays, we immediately see some super important differences. You see, there are times where you can get a better value by spending less money, but there are also times when spending more is actually worth it. So when Samsung released the FE or Fan Edition version of the Tab S9, I was super curious to see if it's a better value than the flagship version or if more is actually more. And to be clear, there's a massive price difference right now with the FE version being half the price of the flagship model. Now, starting out with the displays, they're very close in terms of size, they have the same aspect ratio. You have 16 by 10, which makes them great for watching content. But in terms of specs, that's pretty much where the similarities end. The Tab S9 has an 11 inch dynamic AMOLED 2X display, which offers 120 hertz adaptive refresh rate, a resolution of 1600 by 2560, and a pixel density of 274 pixels per inch. The Tab S9 FE has a 10.9 inch IPS LCD display, which offers a slower 90 hertz adaptive refresh rate, a lower resolution of 1440 by 2304, and a lower pixel density of 249 pixels per inch. In terms of image quality, the FE display is actually quite good and I'm super happy with the image quality for watching video and for playing games. I also love that we're getting 90 hertz versus the 50 hertz we got on the Tab S7 FE. But there's no question that the dynamic AMOLED 2X display on the flagship model is the better display. Colors seem to pop off the screen, we're getting outstanding blacks, better contrast, and the UI animations look smoother. Overall, I'm clearly going to give the edge to the Tab S9, but it's definitely not twice as good as a Tab S9 FE. The two tablets have a similar design with a full aluminum frame and back. They have the same footprint, but the Tab S9 is a bit thinner. I do love that Samsung was able to bring the IP68 rating down to the FE version, giving both tablets protection from water and dust. This is great if you take your tablet with you to work or school or when you travel, but it's also a super nice feature if you're using it around the house and you have a dog with an aggressive tail. Now, both tablets offer face recognition for biometric authentication and a more secure fingerprint sensor. With the Tab S9, we're getting an under display fingerprint sensor and with the FE, it's integrated into the power button. Both sensors have worked great for me and are super responsive and accurate, but I prefer the under display version on the Tab S9 because it's more natural to how I hold the tablet. And both tablets have a micro SD card slot, so we can upgrade the internal storage by up to one terabyte and we can use that internal storage for photos, videos, files, and for most apps. Now, continuing to look around the edges, we're getting four AKG tuned speakers on the Tab S9 versus two on the FE. And the flagship model definitely has a more full sound. The audio seems warmer and has more presence to it, which makes it a better choice for watching content. Another area where I noticed a difference is gaming. Now, I play a lot on my tablets and I was really curious to see how these processors match up. So I was able to play my usual games like Genshin, Asphalt, and PUBG, and of course some less demanding games on both tablets, but there was an obvious difference in both processing power and GPU performance, which did have an impact on more resource-intensive games. We'll quickly go over benchmarks in the performance section, but there's no question that Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip in the Tab S9 is more capable than the Exynos 1380 in the FE version. Using PUBG as an example, gameplay was smoother and more responsive on the Tab S9 and I could play with graphics set to smooth and frame rate set to 90 FPS. I could also set graphics anywhere from balanced to HDR and frame rate set to extreme or ultra HD for graphics and ultra for frame rate. With the FE model, I was limited to high frame rate, whether graphics were set to smooth, balanced or HD, and that was as good as it got so I definitely couldn't get to 90 FPS. Playing Genshin Impact, I had a very similar experience where it was playable on both devices, but performed better on the Tab S9, again, because of the more capable processor and the additional RAM, which I'll discuss in a bit. If gaming is a priority for you, then looking ahead, we know that game developers are going to push the CPU and GPU and games are going to evolve and start to demand more and more resources. When I look to keep a device for at least four or five years, I'm always going to opt for the tablet that has better CPU and GPU performance than I need right now so that it continues to perform well in the future. Now, if you wanna stream and play Xbox Games with the Xbox Game Pass app, you can pair an Xbox controller with both tablets and have extremely smooth gameplay as long as you have a reliable internet connection. Now, both tablets start out with 120 gigabytes of storage and have a 256 gigabyte model. So there's no advantage in terms of space for games and you can't really go wrong here. Now, speaking of places where you can't go wrong, if you're looking for great deals on one of these tablets or new tech in general, check out today's sponsor, Best Buy, and their mobile holiday deals. When you use the app, you get a first look at Best Buy drops, which means you're getting better savings on hot or limited inventory products. Best Buy has great prices and a price match guarantee. And My Best Buy members get exclusive offers on thousands of products. You can get an additional $60 off this wireless optical gaming mouse from Razer and some great discounts on gaming keyboards. Plus, if you shop in store, you can just have a blue shirt scan your digital member ID from the app and all of your in-store purchases are attached to your My Best Buy account. So if you wanna save some money on a gift or something for yourself, make sure that you download the Best Buy app now for great holiday deals. And thank you to Best Buy for sponsoring this portion of the video. Now, back to the tablets. Another factor to consider is the ability to expand the functionality of each tablet by adding a keyboard case and a stylus. Now, both tablets are compatible with the same two versions of book cover keyboard from Samsung. And of course, you can always use an external Bluetooth keyboard instead. Now, both tablets also come with a free S Pen, which can be stored on the side or on the back of the tablet, but only the Tab S9 has a Bluetooth enabled S Pen, which offers some wireless functionality for things like camera control and media playback. Now, in terms of the actual writing experience, it's virtually identical and neither requires a charge in order to write or draw. Looking at the camera systems, the Tab S9 has the 13 megapixel rear facing camera versus 8 megapixel on the Tab S9. Both tablets have a 12 megapixel selfie camera. And here's a quick sample. This is a camera and microphone test of the Tab S9 and the Tab S9 Fe. This should give you a pretty good idea of the type of image quality that you're going to get and the type of audio quality that you should expect for video calls. Now, I briefly mentioned performance when we talked about gaming. So let's quickly look at the single and multi-core performance of the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip and the Exynos 1380, where we see the Snapdragon chip pull way ahead. We also see it score considerably higher in GPU performance, which helps explain some of the differences we saw when gaming. Now, of course, these are just benchmark scores, so beyond the impact on gaming, what about typical real life use? Well, if you're surfing the web, watching video, or going on social media, you'll definitely be able to do that with both tablets, but the Tab S9 feels snappier and more responsive. Even just navigating around the UI and opening and closing apps, you can notice the difference and I would expect it to continue to perform better for longer. Now, of course, for more demanding things like photo or video editing, the Tab S9 is the more capable option. But always keep in mind what you plan on doing because you are paying twice as much. Both tablets run the latest Android and One UI so you're getting all the latest features like three tiled apps, pop-up windows, and of course decks, which is awesome. Essentially, it reboots the tablet and gives you an operating system that is very similar to a desktop OS. You're getting a task bar, a desktop with icons, multiple windows, you can snap windows, and you can use a keyboard case to transform your tablet to more of a laptop replacement. One major difference is that you can only connect an external display and then run a super capable dual display setup with the Tab S9. The FE version doesn't have this feature. But you can use either tablet as an additional display for your laptop or desktop with Samsung's Second Screen. And this is a super handy feature when you travel. As far as OS and security updates, Samsung promises four years of OS updates and five years of security updates, which is nice. And again, keep in mind the difference in performance if you plan on keeping your tablet for a while. Looking at battery life, the flagship model has a larger 8,400 mAh battery versus 8,000 on the FE. But Samsung rates the FE model at 18 hours versus 15 on the Tab S9. Now, that I have the entire Tab S9 and FE lineup, I'm reshooting my battery test. So go ahead and subscribe to be notified when it's published. Now, both tablets offer 45 watt fast charging, but neither ships with a charging adapter so that's something that you'll need to get separately. Now, when we look at the configuration options, both start out with 120 gigabytes of internal storage. The Tab S9 comes with 8 gigs of RAM, and the FE model comes with 6 gigs of RAM. If we upgrade to 256 gigabytes of storage on both models, then we're getting 12 gigs of RAM on the Tab S9 and 8 on the FE. So there's no question that the Tab S9 is the more capable tablet. It has a better display, a much more powerful chip with better CPU and GPU performance, better speakers, a better camera system, and a more capable S Pen. But the Tab S9 FE is an outstanding value when you consider the price. If you don't need the best performance or the absolute best display, you're getting a lot of the same features with better battery life for half the price. Now, you should see how the Tab S9 FE compares with the iPad 10. Hopefully this comparison was helpful. Click on my face to subscribe. You know what I always say, buy it nice or buy it twice. Good luck and see you soon.- Okay, so you're thinking of buying a Galaxy Tab S9 series tablet and you realize that there are three great options, but Samsung actually did something this year to make the decision even harder. So let's talk about all the important differences. This way you can have all the information that you need to choose the right Tab S9 series tablet for you. Starting out, we have the Tab S9 which got the most significant changes in this year's lineup. It retails for 799, and right now, using the links in the description, you can actually double the storage and get 50% more RAM for the same price, but we'll come back to that later. So over the past few years, Samsung didn't give the best displays to the smallest versions, like the Tab S7 and the Tab S8. It was still a very nice display, but it was an LCD display. Now, this year, the Tab S9 got the same upgrade as its two bigger siblings, and now it's sporting an amazing dynamic AMOLED 2X display. It's an 11-inch 120 hertz display with a resolution of 1,600 by 2,560, a 16 by 10 aspect ratio, and 274 pixels per inch. The display gives you the choice between a static 60 hertz or adaptive 120 hertz where the tablet changes in real time based on what you're doing. And this way you can save on battery life when you're looking at static content and you can get smooth and responsive animations when you're interacting with a UI, playing games, or doing anything else where a faster refresh rate offers the optimal user experience. This display has noticeably darker black levels than the previous models. It has better color accuracy, better contrast, and reduced blue light emission. The Tab S9 comes in graphite or beige. And looking around the edges, we see four speaker grills with four AKG-tuned speakers. In terms of audio quality, they're quite good for this size tablet and they work well for watching content and for games that don't require you to quickly identify where sounds are coming from. Obviously, for those types of games, you're better off using headsets, and there's a speaker test of all three tablets later on in this video when I talk about the Tab S9 Ultra. Now back to the Tab S9, we're getting a USB-C for charging and connecting accessories, and there's a micro SD cart slot which allows you to expand the internal storage by up to one terabyte. Now, speaking of accessories, the Tab S9 comes with a Bluetooth-enabled S Pen. We're getting lower latency than last year's model, and it has bidirectional charging, so it doesn't matter which way you snap it to the back. Both the tablet and the S Pen have an IP68 rating, so you're getting protection from water and dust. And the Tab S9 is compatible with two keyboard cases from Samsung, the Book Cover Keyboard and the Book Cover Keyboard Slim. For biometric authentication, we got another upgrade from last year, and now we've got an outstanding under display fingerprint sensor to go along with facial recognition. This year, we also got a really impressive upgrade in performance with the new Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip, which has better single core performance in the last year's model and even greater improvement in multi-core and GPU performance. And the new Qualcomm chip also helps improve battery life. So on top of getting a larger battery this year at 8,400 milliampere-hour versus 8,000, we're also getting a more efficient chip. And I'm finishing up a detailed battery drain test of all three models. I'll also put the Tab S8 series test in the description if you want to check out those results. The Tab S9 gives us outstanding multitasking capabilities with three tiled apps at the same time, popup windows, and then of course DeX. If you're not familiar with it, DeX essentially reboots the tablet and gives you an operating system that's very similar to a desktop OS. You're getting a task bar, a desktop with icons, multiple windows. You can snap windows, and you can use a keyboard case to transform your tablet into more of a laptop replacement. You can also connect an external display keyboard and mouse and then run a super capable dual display setup. Now, one other great option is to use the Tab S9 as an additional display for your laptop or desktop with Samsung's Second Screen. This is a super handy feature when you travel. For cameras, we're getting a 13-megapixel front-facing camera and a 13-megapixel rear-facing camera. And for connectivity, we're getting Wi-Fi 6E compatibility just like with the two larger models. Looking at the configuration options, the 128-gigabyte model comes with eight gigs of RAM, and the 256-gigabyte model comes with 12 gigs of RAM. And remember that you can use the links in the description to get that upgrade for free, which is something that I would highly recommend doing. Ultimately, this is an extremely powerful and capable tablet at this price point. It's also a great option for someone who values portability, for users who prefer this size for gaming, or for users with smaller hands who find a smaller tablet easier to handle. Moving onto the Tab S9+, which starts out at $999. We're essentially getting the same design, but in a larger form factor. We're now getting the same type of display, dynamic AMOLED 2X, but it's larger at 12.4 inches. We're getting a higher resolution at 1,752 by 2,800, the same aspect ratio of 16 by 10, and a slightly lower pixel density, but not something that's really noticeable in terms of sharpness. Now, watching content on this display is fantastic. The image quality is outstanding. And since the aspect ratio is so close to the image that's being displayed, they're very small black bars at the top and the bottom. Also, if you fill to zoom, you're getting a very minor crop and then the image covers the entire display and looks great. Again, we're getting four AKG-tuned speakers, but these are warmer and fuller than the ones on the Tab S9. We're getting the same USB-C 3.2 ports, same Bluetooth 5.3, and Wi-Fi 6E compatibility, but a larger battery than the Tab S9 at 10,090 milliampere-hour. And like all three tablets, we're getting fast wire charging at 45 watts. Now, keep in mind that none of these tablets come with a charger, and I'll put some links in the description to a few of my favorites. We have the same options for biometric authentication with an under-display fingerprint sensor and facial recognition. We're getting the same S Pen with the same low latency, and the same IP68 protection for the S Pen and the tablet. Now, even though we have the same multitasking features, the larger display on the Tab S9+ gives the edge over the smaller Tab S9, and that's true for multiple tiled apps, for DeX, and when we're using it as an external display. When it comes to gaming, this model might be the sweet spot in terms of size. You're getting a larger display, but it's not too big, so it's great for handheld games and when you wanna connect to controller, and then stream some games using the Xbox Game Pass app. It has the same 13-megapixel front-facing camera as the Tab S9. But in addition to the 13-megapixel rear-facing camera, it also has an eight-megapixel ultra wide. We're getting the same powerful Qualcomm Snapdragon chip, but the Tab S9+ starts with 256 gigabytes and 12 gigs if RAM. And again, right now you can double the storage and get the 512 gigabyte model for the same price. The Tab S9+ is right there in the middle. It's giving you a noticeably larger display, a slightly better camera module, better speakers, a larger battery, and more storage. All right, so now we move on to the Tab S9 Ultra, which starts out at $1,199. It's the biggest tablet that Samsung makes, and it's what some people would say is inarguably the best display on any tablet. Now, whether you agree or not, if you've had a chance to use this tablet in real life, you have to admit that this display is spectacular. It's massive at 14.6 inches, still dynamic AMOLED 2X, 120 hertz. It has the highest resolution at 1,848 by 2,960 the same 16 by 10 aspect ratio, and a pixel density of 239. Now, surprisingly, the Tab S9 Ultra is the thinnest of all three tablets. It's not by a lot, but when you couple the larger size with the thinnest tablet, the user experience is that of using some sort of a futuristic display. I'll admit that it's probably not for everyone. It's definitely the least portable option, although, honestly, for me, I always carry it in my backpack. So it doesn't really impact me in that context, but there is one specific area where it's actually too big, and I'll get to that in just a minute. And we're getting all the same biometric features the same connectivity, same IP68 rating, but we do see another change when it comes to the camera module. So we have the 13-megapixel wide and the eight-megapixel ultra wide that we saw on the Tab S9+ on the back of the tablet. But on the front we're now getting two 13-megapixel cameras with a wide and an ultra wide. We're also getting a small notch which is something that I feel like I have to address. So I've heard both sides of the argument and my perspective in short is that it just doesn't matter. The display is so big and the notch is like this big. It's so tiny that I never really notice it. Now, of course, if it's something that you're gonna be fixated on, then it's not really the tablet for you and you should probably go with something like the Tab S9+. But it's just never really been an issue or in the way for any of the ways that I use this tablet. The Tab S9 Ultra is right now my favorite tablet to watch content on. The fact that I can get an image to be this big, this close to me is super impressive. We're also getting the best audio quality using the built-in speakers. And here's a quick sample from all three tablets. ("On & On") â™ª Hold me close 'til I get up â™ª â™ª Time is barely on our side â™ª â™ª I don't wanna waste what's left â™ª â™ª The storms we chase are leading us â™ª â™ª And love is all we'll ever trust, yeah â™ª â™ª No, I don't wanna waste what's left â™ª â™ª And on and on we'll go â™ª â™ª Through the wastelands, through the highways â™ª â™ª 'Til my shadow turns to sun rays â™ª â™ª And on and on we'll go â™ª â™ª Through the wastelands, through the highways â™ª â™ª And on and on we'll go â™ª - We're getting the largest battery of all three at 11,200 milliampere-hours, but of course it has to power the largest display, so I'm super excited to show you my battery test, and make sure that you're subscribed so you don't miss out. For multitasking DeX and second screen, this is the best option because it's such a useful size and you can have so much content on it and you can really improve your productivity. Now, the one area where this tablet was too big for me was when I'm playing "PUBG" and holding it in the air. It just feels cumbersome and my hands get pretty tired after a couple games. Now, if you play with a tablet flat on the desk or on a pillow, then that's another completely different story. And in that case, I love having the larger display because it's easier to see smaller movements. It's definitely the best tablet to use with a controller because it's like having a super light and portable TV with you anywhere you go. For configuration options, it starts out with 256 gigabytes of internal storage and 12 gigs of RAM. And again, you can double the storage right now for the same price. And if you go to one terabyte, you also get bumped up to 16 gigabytes of RAM. If you want the biggest tablet with the biggest display for watching content, if you multitask, use your tablet as a laptop replacement with DeX, or use it for second screen, and if you want the largest gaming display Samsung offers in a tablet, get yourself a Tab S9 Ultra. It's probably my favorite tablet in the lineup. And this display just puts a smile on my face every time I use it. And whenever a new person sees me using it for the first time, it's super obvious that there is something very special about this tablet. Now you should check out this comparison. Hopefully this video is helpful. Click on my face to subscribe. You know what I always say, buy it nice or buy it twice. Good luck and see you soon.I've tried to replace my laptop with an Android tablet and I would like to share my experience with you let me just tell you how I felt it was really really bad won't recommend doing this I previously did this experiment with a game console and an iPad but it's going to be a lot worse this time the primary issue I faced while using my iPad as my primary device was that all the apps that were present was actually a trim down version of their original counterparts but it's going to be tougher on the Android tablet the thing is that Android still lacks a lot of Pro apps and that my friend is a real issue let's take a deep breath and a deep dive in into this my name is praj and let's get started I'll be trying out this experiment with my Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Fe plus my primary task were managing my schedule scripting and editing my videos creating thumbnails and producing music if you are a programmer I think you can now get vs code for Android not really sure about this one so I'll be leaving a link in the description and you can check it out yourself let's start with something easy managing my schedule I maintain my work and content schedule using to theist and notion this is one aspect where I faed no issues at all it was actually more convenient managing my schedule using my tablet compared to a PC for example the inhand feel really gives a subtle touch to it was able to navigate quite nicely if you have a stylus it can become a lot more easier the S Spen came right out of the box on this tablet so yeah that was a good addition one thing I must point out if you're a student then this will come in real Handy you will be able to take handwritten notes and manage your PDFs using this tablet itself if you have a Samsung tablet then you also get access to good notes for Android it has been one of the most popular not taking apps for the iPad but the Android version is still in a very weird State I talked about this issue on the different video I'll leave a link in the description in case you're interested in that it's the same when it comes to the entertainment sides of things you can binge watch your favorite shows on Netflix Prime video or whatever you're into you will get a great Visual and audio experience if you use a Windows laptop then you know this very well the speakers of Windows laptop simply suck you're going to have a far better audio experience using this one since it's an Android tablet you can game quite nicely using this one one issue that you'll be facing while playing games is that most games won't be optimized for tablet they will just stretch to fit your tablet if you don't mind this issue then you're good to go also you'll have a better battery life compared to any laptop you should keep this in mind the social media apps for the iPad is just not optimized this is how Instagram looks on iPad and this is how Instagram looks on Android tablets well done meta another aspect that I really enjoyed was scripting my videos like a previously mentioned in my iPad video I used to use Google talks to script but now I switched to simple note it's clean it's more convenient and it's present for every platform I obviously didn't type using the default keyboard it's much easier if you just connect a Bluetooth keyboard and also a mouse it will make your life so much easier also you'll be able to enjoy the process more it will handle lightweight task quite nicely the multitask window will help you get a lot done if you do a lot of research related stuff and take notes along with it I really use this split screen mode a lot it simply speeds up my workflow and also if you're enjoying this video so far then i' would really appreciate if you could quickly hit that subscribe button that will help me out a lot let's talk about photo editing I've been editing my photos on Lightroom and it's so therapeutic the a pen really helps me fine-tune the adjustments it simply feels good editing my photos like this this but now everything changes editing photos was fine but what about creating thumbnails I searched for Photoshop and what I found was Photoshop Express so I had to download canva I never thought I'd be doing this as I love creating my thumbnails it really helps me get that Personal Touch as I have more controls in Photoshop in canva you can basically use the templates to create your own thumbnail many people actually use this and it's an easy way to get some great results if you are new into graphic designing but I've spent a lot of years on Photoshop so it doesn't really make sense for me but nevertheless here I go I was actually a ble to receive some satisfactory results in the thumbnail department but things get even worse now how do I edit my videos here I used a resol to edit my videos on a computer but it isn't available on Android I had to choose between Luma fusion and Premier Rush Premier Rush is basically a trim down version of Adobe Premier Pro I used to use Premier Pro before switching to Davi so I thought of giving Premier Rush a try I was able to get some basic edits and adjustments done to didn't really do anything Advanced over here on iPad we had the full version of dingi resolve it allowed me to get exactly what I wanted in my edit but it wasn't the case over here I simply had to adjust with what I had and also it wasn't really stable I work with a lot of 4K videos Premier rush just like other Adobe products crashed a lot of times sorry Adobe it was really inconvenient to be honest for editing minor videos and creating reels and shorts it should work totally fine but if you want to get some heavy editing done it's better you stick to using your laptop it won't be able to handle such a task also the expose time would be really high with 4K footage so you should keep that in mind if you're a digital artist however I would recommend that you use an iPad procreate is such a great app and it's only available for the iPad they have also recently released a new app called procreate dreams and that basically allows us to create high quality animations just right in your iPad I've been using this app called infinite painter on my Android tablet it's a great app I must say but I would still prefer procreate it's so much better one good thing was that record box is there for Android it's a industry standard DS software that everyone uses so if you wanted to be a DJ and get your hands on the industry standard software then you'll be able to get that quite easily but unlike the iPad you will be able to import your music that you already own locally that's one major benefit of using Android over Apple devices DJing was taken care of but music production is really going to be challenging over here my primary door of choice is FL Studio we only have a mobile version of FL Studio for Android and that was very sad and in this version of FL Studio mobile I wouldn't really want to make music in this app it's only good for maybe programming drums and creating some cords perh apps in iPad we had access to logic pro which is a great software for music production many Pros use it too but I couldn't really find a good alternative here on Android to be honest the closest app I could find was actually band lab it had a good library of virtual instruments and it was fairly easy to create Cs and M notes using this app check this out if you're into music production so would you be able to use an Android tablet as your primary computer I certainly can it would be too much limiting for me in the larger Spectrum your smartphone lies on one side your laptop lies on the other the iPad basically lies in the middle but the Android tablets fall a little behind the iPad as of today do let me know your thoughts in the comments I would really like to hear them there are many interesting apps that you can use to be more more Mindful and in return be more productive click here to check out the best productivity apps that will help you Kickstart 2024 thanks for watching please consider subscribing to my channel and I hope to see you [Music] thereHello and welcome back to my channel! In today's video, I'm thrilled to share the unboxing experience for the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 FE I was eager to get a tablet for more efficient studying and creating illustrations without the need for stacks of paper! As some of you know, I also create merch inspired by K-pop and adorable characters, stickers and memo pads with charming designs. Feel free to check out my creations on my Instagram and Etsy @kibimistudio There's something for every lover of cuteness! ðŸŒˆðŸ’• This model comes with 6 GB of RAM and 128 GB of storage in an elegant gray color I would have preferred a different color, but this one was on sale, and since I'll be adding a case, I don't mind! It comes with a Samsung pen and a USB Type-C cable I was surprised it didn't come with a screen protectorðŸ˜¶ Let's power it on and set up the basic parameters! I discovered it has fingerprint unlock â€” what a surprise! I always forgot it comes with a pen, no need to use my fingerðŸ˜… Now, let's try out Samsung Notes In a future clip, I'll show you my notes as I explore its features Yes, definitely much better with a white sheet! ðŸ“„ Time to set a wallpaper! This one lasted less than 24 hours because I added my illustration as soon as I could! ðŸŽ¨ Hello again! Two weeks have passed, and I've received everything I ordered from AliExpress: a case, tempered glass, and a pen case. All for less than 20â‚¬! Ugg... the pen case was a little difficult to put on... Finally! Even with the cover the magnet still worksðŸŒˆðŸ’• LOOK AT THIS ADORABLE CASE!!ðŸ˜ Now, everything is protected :3 Let me show you quickly my Samsung notes Thank you so much for watching my video. See you in the next one!ðŸ§¡âœ¨